PM considers new measures amid second virus wave Boris Johnson will spend the weekend considering whether to tighten Covid-19 measures in England, after saying the UK was "now seeing a second wave". The government is understood to be looking at a ban on households mixing, and reducing opening hours for pubs and restaurants.  At least 13.5 million people, roughly one in five of the UK population, are already facing local restrictions.  In London, additional measures were "increasingly likely", its mayor said. Mr Johnson only has direct power over restrictions in England. The devolved governments in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland can set their own rules. Widespread growth of the virus has been recorded across the country, with cases doubling every seven to eight days. There were a further 4,322 confirmed cases on Friday - the first time the daily total of positive tests has exceeded 4,000 since 8 May. In Bolton, one returning holidaymaker, who did not self-isolate and instead went on a pub crawl, is being partly blamed for the town's spike in cases. Meanwhile, governments across Europe have announced new restrictions to tackle the surge in infections.  Speaking on Friday, Mr Johnson said he did not "want to go into bigger lockdown measures" but that tighter social distancing rules might be necessary. He added: "Clearly when you look at what is happening, you have got to wonder whether we need to go further than the rule of six that we brought in on Monday." The government is understood to be considering a short period of tighter rules across England - "a circuit break" - which could involve closing hospitality venues.  However, schools and workplaces would stay open. No 10 is also looking at limiting the opening hours of pubs and restaurants across the country, as has already happened in many areas of north-east England, where pubs had to close at 22:00 BST on Friday. Labour deputy leader Angela Rayner called for the government to hold an emergency Cobra meeting, look at the science and improve its communication so "people can do the right thing".  "If the government are able to do that, we will back them," she told the BBC. She also said it had been "shocking" to see how "monumentally" the government's test and trace system had failed. Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon and Welsh First Minister Mark Drakeford are also calling for a Cobra meeting. Ms Sturgeon said the next few days would be "critical" to avoid another full-scale lockdown in Scotland. London Mayor Sadiq Khan said he was extremely concerned by evidence of the accelerating speed with which coronavirus was spreading in the capital. "We will be considering some of the measures which have already been imposed in other parts of the UK," he said. "I am of the firm view that we should not wait, as happened six months ago, for this virus to again spiral out of control before taking action." The government's Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (Sage) said the R number - representing the number of people an infected person will pass the virus on to - had risen to between 1.1 and 1.4. Although deaths remain at a very low level, Sage said the rise in the R number "shows that we are moving to wider spread growth in transmission at a faster rate". The sharp rise in UK cases over the last two weeks comes amid ongoing problems with the government's test and trace programme, leading to people struggling to access tests. Former government adviser Prof Neil Ferguson, whose advice was crucial to the decision to go into lockdown in March, said a two-week mini lockdown could help to "reset" the virus. "We have a perfect storm right now, of people - as they've been told to - getting back to normal, schools reopening, a surge in cases and therefore the testing system is under strain," he told the BBC. "Unfortunately we do have to roll the relaxation of measures back a little bit and get contacts down in the population." Asked if this should mean more restrictions on going abroad, he said the bigger risk was normal everyday interactions, which needed to be "dialled back a little". The question is no longer where we are, but where we are heading. Yes, the number of people infected, in hospital with Covid or dying from the disease are all at far lower levels than at the peak. Scientists will quibble about the exact definition of a "second wave", but all data points to rising numbers of infections.  The government's science advisers say the number is now doubling every week.  If those trends continue then infections could go from the estimated 6,000-a-day to more than 100,000 by mid-October.  It is that trajectory, which is not written in stone, the government is trying to change. There are questions for politicians, from whether it should do a "circuit-break" to improving Test and Trace.  But, with evidence suggesting only one in five people are following the self-isolation rules when they get sick, there are also questions for all of us.  New restrictions for large parts of England's North West, West Yorkshire and the Midlands come into force on Tuesday. The latest areas to see extra measures put in place include Lancashire (excluding Blackpool), Merseyside and the Cheshire boroughs of Warrington and Halton. Additional restrictions are also being put in place in Wolverhampton, Oadby and Wigston in Leicestershire, and all parts of Bradford, Kirklees and Calderdale. In total, nearly 4.7 million people will be affected by the new restrictions, which ban separate households from meeting each other at home or in private gardens. Do you live in one of the areas where restrictions are being reintroduced? How will you be affected? Share your views and experiences by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk. Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also get in touch in the following ways: If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the BBC website to submit your question or comment or you can email us at HaveYourSay@bbc.co.uk. Please include your name, age and location with any submission. 
Coronavirus: 'Rule-breaking Bolton pub crawl' saw cases rise 
Covid restrictions in London 'increasingly likely' 
Leaders urge PM to help Covid-hit aerospace sector The first ministers of the devolved nations have called for "urgent" UK government intervention to help the struggling aerospace sector. Scotland's Nicola Sturgeon, Mark Drakeford of Wales and Arlene Foster from Northern Ireland have signed a joint letter. They believe a taskforce should be launched to help the industry, which has been hit hard by coronavirus. The UK government said the industry was a "critical part" of the UK economy. A spokesman said it continued to work closely with the sector to ensure it can rebuild as the civil aviation market recovers. The letter is also signed by leaders of the Unite union which brought the politicians together for the initiative.  Unite says tens of thousands of jobs in the sector and associated industries are on the "brink of being lost forever". In May, MPs were told up to 8,000 jobs could go in the aerospace sector in Wales. Scotland has also been hit hard with more than 1,200 jobs likely to go at companies such as Rolls Royce and GE Caledonian.  In Northern Ireland Bombardier, Collins Aerospace and Thompson Aero have announced plans to lay off more than 1,300 staff. The political leaders said the creation of an aerospace taskforce "would be a positive signal to the sector". They added such a move would show "all our governments remain committed to working together in order to preserve this sector that is hugely important to the whole of the UK". And they stressed the need to act quickly, warning: "Urgent intervention is now required to preserve capability and avert further damaging losses." The proposed taskforce would include "active participation" from the governments in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, as well as unions and companies working in the sector. Ms Sturgeon said: "As we approach the closure of the furlough scheme at the end of October, there is a real possibility of significant job losses across the UK. "We have repeatedly called for the UK government to reconsider its position and to extend the scheme, especially for sectors that have been particularly hard-hit like aerospace." She added "sector-specific approaches" were necessary to prevent a "severe" long term impact. The Scottish government has already set up an aerospace response group to help the industry address the challenges posed by the pandemic. Pat Rafferty, Scottish secretary of Unite, said: "Tens of thousands of highly-skilled jobs and those supported by the aerospace sector in the supply-chain are on the brink of being lost forever. "It's clear that many of the measures required to support the sector reside with the UK government, which is why we are collectively asking the prime minister to immediately establish a UK aerospace taskforce to co-ordinate support." He added the situation in Scotland alone "risks a £185 million blow to the economy". A UK government spokesman said: "The aviation and aerospace sector remains a critical part of the UK economy and we will continue to work closely with industry through the Aerospace Growth Partnership to ensure it can rebuild as the civil aviation market recovers. "The UK government is supporting the aerospace and aviation sectors with over £8.5bn in grants, loans and export guarantees.  "Through major R&D investment of nearly £2bn to 2026, we are also developing new tech to make air travel safer and greener while creating new, well-paid green jobs for decades to come."
Pay care workers more for Covid sacrifice - Labour Labour is calling for guaranteed pay rises for care workers in England as the party prepares for what has been billed as a "virtual" party conference. Its deputy leader Angela Rayner will say low pay in the industry is a "moral outrage" given the sacrifices of staff during the coronavirus pandemic. Minimum pay rates of £9.30 an hour, and £10.75 in London, are needed to "pay the rent or put the food on the table". Ministers say 600,000 staff are gaining from a rise in the National Live Wage. They are among those who will see their take home pay increase by £930 a year following April's 6% rise in the National Living Wage from £8.21 to £8.72 an hour.  The government has set a target of increasing it to more than £10.50 by 2024, which would represent 65% of median UK earnings.  But Ms Rayner will insist that the 1.2 million care workers in England deserve a "real living wage" now if they are to pay their bills and support their families. Labour has been forced to cancel its traditional party conference, which was due to be held in Liverpool, due to the virus, as have the other political parties.  Instead, the party is holding a series of virtual events under the Labour Connected banner, starting with a Women's Connected event for female members on Saturday. The party's leader Sir Keir Starmer is due to make a keynote speech - his first since being elected in April - on Tuesday in which he is expected to set out his vision for his party.  Ms Rayner, who was also elected in April, will use a series of media appearances on Saturday to attack the government's "failure" to adequately protect care homes and their staff during the pandemic. She will claim the government's "incompetence" has contributed to the deaths of 15,000 care home residents and she will say that staff that have put their lives on the line deserve a better pay deal as quickly as possible. Ms Rayner, who represented care workers as a Unison official before entering Parliament, will cite research suggesting the median hourly wage in the independent care sector before the pandemic was £8.10 an hour. She will back the Living Wage Foundation's call for hourly pay rates of £9.30 an hour, and £10.75 in London, for the care sector, which the organisation says is needed for workers to get by and cope with the cost of living.  "The prime minister and government ministers have fallen over themselves to clap for our carers and offer them warm words, but applause and empty gestures don't pay the rent or put the food on the table," she will say. "We can't clap our key workers and then abandon them. We can't go back to business as usual, where the very same people who have helped to get our country through this crisis are still underpaid and undervalued. "After all their sacrifice and bravery, the very least that our care workers deserve is a pay rise." The Conservatives said while ministers were not responsible for directly setting pay for care workers, changes to the National Living Wage meant a full-time worker will have seen their income go up by £3,600 since 2016. "Tax cuts and increases to National Living Wage brought in by the Conservatives have benefitted millions of the lowest paid, including those who provide vital care," said the party's chairwoman Amanda Milling.  Conservative sources said Labour must explain how it would pay for pay rises for staff working in private homes. The government is considering calls from the sector for a huge injection of funding as part of its current spending review, amid claims a further £7.5bn will be needed just to meet current pressures by 2025.  Boris Johnson promised to find a lasting solution to the crisis in social care when he took office in July 2019 but a blueprint for future reforms is not now expected until next year. In the meantime, ministers have pledged £1.5bn in additional funding each year as well as extra support to prepare care homes for a second wave of the virus, including free protective equipment for care workers, limiting the movement of staff between care homes and improved infection control measures. 
Can a 'circuit break' halt the second Covid wave? Prime Minister Boris Johnson says the UK is "now seeing a second wave" of Covid-19. Expanding "local" restrictions mean more than 13 million people (one-fifth of the UK population) have extra curbs on their lives.  And the surge in cases is not contained to just the hotspots, but is widespread across the UK. Local restrictions do not suppress a virus that is spreading outside of those areas.  It is against this backdrop the government is deciding what to do next. One idea is a "circuit-break" - a short, sharp period of tightened restrictions for everyone to curb the spread of coronavirus.  So why might a circuit break be needed and what could it achieve? Let's do some rough maths.  Take 6,000 cases a day, double them every week - as the Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (Sage) suggests is happening - and by mid-October you have more than 100,000 infections a day as we did at the peak.  That is not sophisticated disease modelling, it is not written in stone and measures such as the "rule of six" should slow the spread.  But that simple sum gives a sense of how quickly a small problem can be become a huge one.  A circuit break is all about trying to change that trajectory.  "The evidence is hospitalisations are increasing, it is a worry and the concern is what happens if we don't do something," Dr Mike Tildesley, from the University of Warwick, told me. He is part of the government's disease modelling group of scientists, called SPI-M, which has been discussing circuit-breakers this week.  Dr Tildesley added: "To be perfectly frank, none of us want this, but we're stuck between a rock and a hard place. "However, with a managed short-term lockdown you buy yourself some time." A bout of tighter restrictions should result in cases falling instead of rising, but how far they drop is uncertain and will depend on how severe the restrictions are. It is suggested schools and workplaces would remain open, but the hospitality sector (think bars and restaurants) would be hit. This is not Lockdown 2.0. "The over-arching aim is you don't want intensive care units filling up again, but you also have increased options at lower levels of the virus," said Dr Adam Kucharski, another SPI-M member and researcher at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. When levels of the virus are low, it is easier to spot outbreaks and use highly targeted measures, that are less disruptive than national ones, to curb the spread of Covid-19. Dr Kucharski told the BBC: "As cases and hospitalisations increase, there is less information on what the outbreak is doing as Test and Trace can't pick it all up, you don't know where the outbreak is. "That's the difference, options decline substantially as cases rise." Circuit breaks have been used in other countries. The temporary lockdown in New Zealand can be seen as a circuit break that gave contact tracers the time to get on top of their outbreak.  In the UK, a break could buy time to improve the government's beleaguered Test and Trace programme, which is already struggling with current levels of coronavirus.  But the problem is once the circuit break is over, cases would begin to rise again.  "You may find yourself in a cycle of short-term lockdowns until you have an exit strategy like a vaccine or herd immunity," Dr Tildesley says. Remember it is only September.  Spring, when coronavirus should be easier to contain and we may have a vaccine, is still a very long way away. Follow James on Twitter
‘Another lockdown would be disastrous for our business’ A resurgence of coronavirus has led the government to impose new restrictions on millions of people across the UK. For many restaurants, pubs and bars, the new rules have come just as business is picking up once again. "Another lockdown would be disastrous for our business," the boss of a bar chain, Martin Wolstencroft, has said. "We've done so well to get through the national lockdown, we reopened on 4 July with measures in place, we rebuilt.. and it's really frustrating." Mr Wolstencroft runs Arc Inspirations, which owns 17 bars and bar restaurants in Leeds, Manchester and Newcastle.  Its Newcastle site is affected by the new restrictions announced on Friday, which require bars and pubs to shut between 22:00 and 05:00.     •Covid: New restrictions in North West, Midlands and West Yorkshire     •Restaurants at 'critical risk' of eviction     •Coronavirus: How are pubs keeping customers safe? New rules limiting gatherings to six people have also impacted his business, leading to 3,000 bookings being cancelled at Arc Inspirations' Manchester venues since the restriction came into effect a week ago. Mr Wolstencroft is now really worried about Christmas - traditionally the busiest season of the year for the hospitality industry: "We were projecting our sales to be 20% down for the rest of the year without another lockdown.  "But over Christmas, if there are more measures in place, we will be in excess of 50% down," he says. We need that sales and profit which helps us through the rest of the year." He says many customers are struggling to understand the increased regulations, and the uncertainty is making things worse for hospitality firms. "It's just very, very frustrating trying to manage a business when you don't know what and when is going to happen in the future," he says.  According to trade group UK Hospitality, the British hospitality sector is now "on a knife-edge", and 1 million people employed in the industry remain at risk of losing their jobs. "Despite the boost delivered by the Eat Out to Help Out scheme, consumer confidence is still low and it takes a further beating whenever lockdowns or restrictions are mentioned," says UK Hospitality's chief executive Kate Nicholls.  "If lockdowns or restrictions are needed, they need to be formulated carefully, and come with government support, to minimise the damage to business." She stresses that even having a hospitality venue close just an hour earlier "has a huge impact" on its business.  Peter Borg-Neal is the chairman of Oakman Inns, a chain of 25 pubs and hotels spread across Hertfordshire, Buckinghamshire and Bedfordshire.  He doesn't think that people socialising in restaurants and pubs is the main cause for the virus spreading, when "yesterday there were only nine cases in the entire county [Buckinghamshire], out of half a million people". According to data from real estate adviser Altus Group, the new curfew and restrictions of sales of food and drink to table service will affect one in 10 pubs in England. "If the government wants to enforce further rules than it needs to be very specific - if the individual pub or restaurant doesn't comply, well close them," Mr Borg-Neal said.  "Don't pick on the people who are working really hard to get the economy moving again, working really hard to protect their customers and their employees." Mr Borg-Neal wants the government to provide businesses with even more financial support if the hospitality industry has to be closed once again, or many will not survive.  And he thinks a blanket policy to close restaurants, pubs and bars will have unintended consequences. "If they close all the pubs, what will happen? Students will be gathering in tiny flats and bedsits with a bottle of cider," he stresses.  "It will be far, far worse. It makes no sense on public health grounds to close pubs." While many hospitality firms are unhappy with the government's restrictions, some are in favour of it, like The Steam Packet pub in Chiswick, London, which is owned by pub chain Brunning and Price. "We've suffered in terms of numbers as we're a small pub, but people are coming back in because they feel safe," pub manager Jonathan Gillespie tells the BBC. "We will follow the government's regulations as they've made people feel safe." He is worried about the future, but says it is difficult to predict what will happen: "I am concerned about the impact it will have on my business but I don't know what it will look like. Mr Gillespie says his business is good at finding solutions to difficult challenges, and will continue to do so.  "Here we're doing takeaway food and drinks from a hatch, you can buy fish and chips or a pint and take it to go sit by the river and socially distance," he says.  "That's something that's really helped our business."
The music venues opening despite the pandemic With most gig venues still stuck in a dark and silent stasis, and coronavirus restrictions getting tighter, it's an unlikely time for new venues to be opening their doors. Craig Pennington has been busy measuring out socially-distanced "pods" on the floor of Future Yard in Birkenhead. When indie band She Drew The Gun launch the venue to a sell-out crowd of 60 people later, each pair of fans will be allocated a pod in which they can stand and watch - but not dance, sing along or cheer. If opening a small venue wasn't arduous and risky enough, doing so amid the Covid-19 crisis - especially with cases rising again - is a logistical migraine and a licence to lose money. "Launching a live music venue in the midst of a global pandemic is not something I'd advise," Pennington says with a wry laugh.  And yet he's going ahead. He got the keys to the building in January, before Covid was really on the radar, initially planning to open in April with a capacity of 350. When the government gave the go-ahead for indoor venues to reopen in England with social distancing in August, Pennington didn't want to wait much longer. As well as hosting gigs, Future Yard will offer training for 16- to 24-year-olds in the live music industry, and rehearsal and recording spaces for new local artists. "It's just really important that we could get open," Pennington said on Thursday. "That comes with great pressures financially and also operationally, but it's something we feel like we've got to do. "If we'd just sat here and mothballed and waited to the point where it made absolute financial sense, potentially it could have been years before we opened. "Our primary motivation is to really think how we can use a venue like Future Yard to be a positive influence for the local community. We're here to use music as a powerful lever for social change. This is a moment when we're needed more than ever, so we just had to find a way of getting open." On Friday, the government added a new complication with new restrictions for Merseyside, among other areas. From Tuesday, people from different households won't be allowed to meet in private homes or gardens. They can still meet in pubs, bars and entertainment venues, but those venues must have table service and close by 10pm. Pennington is undeterred. Future Yard has tables (made from milk crates) in the pods, and the bands will just finish earlier. He's planning more socially-distanced shows next month, as long as restrictions aren't tightened further. And he has already announced a string of concerts for the new year - by which time he hopes the venue will be able to relax its rules. "If you look at our listings for next year, there's a lot of stuff in there where we're going to need a dancefloor," he says. "I don't think those shows will happen if we're still in the same situation we are now with the level of social distancing because I don't think they'll be viable, and the artists and agents won't want to do them." For now, government guidelines say venues must discourage communal dancing, singing along, shouting, cheering or chanting. "It clearly comes with challenges," Pennington admits. The pods are marked out on the floor, rather than being separated by physical screens. Other safety measures range from staggered arrival times to an app to order drinks to avoid having to go to the bar. A ventilation system will change the air 20 times per hour. Fans must wear face masks, but may remove them to drink - which may in reality be very often. If people get carried away and blur the social distancing boundaries, the venue has "overstaffed heavily on stewards", Pennington says. But he wants to police it with a "light touch". He adds: "The key is about trusting your audiences and working with them and communicating well with them and making sure they know what to expect. We think we've done that. There's just a real appetite to come out and enjoy a live music experience. If you're doing that in a safe and controlled way, the audience will go with you on it." One venue that has already opened recently is the NE Volume Bar in Stockton-on-Tees, Teesside, where 32 people can sit at 11 socially-distanced tables. The full capacity should be 110. So far, they have hosted a mixture of singer-songwriters and bands playing stripped-back acoustic sets. "It's still a good atmosphere," says co-owner Adam Allcock. "People aren't standing up and going wild. Our customer base is quite nice. They're there for the music, so they want to listen to the music anyway. It's all been going fine. No-one's had to be told to settle down or stay in their seat or anything like that." Another venue, Strange Brew in Bristol, is also opening this weekend. All three were in the pipeline before the virus wrecked their plans. Allcock and his brother Lee got the keys to NE Volume Bar one day before lockdown. They initially opened as a bar when allowed to in July, then staged the first gig on 4 September. "We had to open it because we didn't get any funding, to bring some money in instead of just outgoings," he says. "We get messages every day of people looking for tickets, but we just obviously can't fit them in with the capacity." Stockton is just outside the zone in the north-east where new restrictions were introduced on Thursday, forcing an outdoor venue in Newcastle, the 2,500-capacity Virgin Money Unity Arena, to close prematurely. It had been the only major UK venue to be staging regular gigs. Mark Davyd, chief executive of the Music Venues Trust, says 84 of the organisation's 900 members have staged some live music so far since lockdown, but just 13 are doing so regularly. "There are these local lockdowns and restrictions, which remain a challenge to doing anything more comprehensive," he says. "It's a developing picture. We don't know quite where it's going to go to yet." And the long-term future remains uncertain for many grassroots venues. Since lockdown, 11 have announced they are closing permanently - although nine of those have since been taken over by new operators. Davyd says another nine are expected to announce their intentions to close. "They're all still in a fairly precarious position right the way across the UK," he says. Around half of MVT venues want to reopen in some form by the end of October, when furlough ends. Some hope to do so with emergency government funding, while others just want to get back up and running for the sake of their communities and crews, he says. Beyond the uncertainty over being allowed to reopen, there is the question of whether it makes financial sense to do so. "The short answer frankly is no," he says. "The slightly longer answer is, financial viability wouldn't be the only reason why they would be doing it. They really are community-run and community-led spaces." Follow us on Facebook, or on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts. If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Coronavirus: Teacher writes about 'horrendous' Covid-19 battle 
Covid: New restrictions in North West, Midlands and West Yorkshire 
'It's a nightmare': The families who can't get a test Schools are back, businesses are reopening and winter bugs are starting to spread - meaning more and more people are asking for a coronavirus test. Three families explain how the testing problems are affecting them. Maria Aziz, from west London, has been trying to book a test since Sunday, when her nine-year-old daughter, Mishal, complained of a sore throat. By 04:00 Monday, her daughter had developed a fever. "I had been trying all of Sunday to try and get a test. I must have tried between seven and 10 times," she told the BBC. "And then yesterday I probably tried about four times at various intervals across the day, starting early in the morning and ending late at night." After again trying and failing to book a test today, she said she's frustrated. Her eldest daughter, Eimann, 14, has also had to be withdrawn from school while she tries to book a test for her younger daughter. "Even if I have to drive 100 miles to get a test, I'd rather get her tested than not have a test," she said. "If she has it, then that's fine. We will know we need to continue self-isolating. But if she doesn't then it's unfair on my older daughter. She's missed enough school already. "I'm trying through the government website and then yesterday there was also a number on the website to call - 119 - so I tried that as well. Each time there were no tests available. No home kits. No walk-in slots. No drive-through slots. Nothing. "It's very frustrating. They've just about managed a week of school before they've had to be off again. It would be good to know one way or the other." Scott Vining's daughter fell ill with a temperature on Saturday. By Sunday, the rest of the family, who live near Dunstable, in Bedfordshire, had also developed symptoms. "We've tried hundreds of times," he told the BBC about trying to book a test. "We started to try and book tests for my daughter on Sunday, to no avail, and then we started at 08:00 on Monday morning for us all." At one point Scott was offered a test in Warwickshire, 65 miles away from his home, through the government website. But by the time he'd entered the details of his family, the spaces had disappeared. "This is the problem I've found," he said. "When you're doing it for a family of four, either no tests were available at all or after a while it kept taking you right back to the start to put all your details in again. "In the end, I just put my wife's details in because she's the most important one to get back to work." Scott managed to secure a test for his wife today in Luton. He has since managed to book tests for himself and his children at a separate testing centre, in Bedford. "Both the walk-in centre in Luton and the drive-in car park in Bedford were empty," he said. "The walk-in centre had at least 12 available test booths with only three people there. The drive-in had space for maybe 30 cars. There was only one other car there." If it happens again, however, the small cafe the family runs may have to close. The business only survived lockdown with the help of a crowd-funding drive and a grant. "We've only got my wife and another member of staff there. She wouldn't be able to run it on her own so we would have to shut," he said. "Inevitably, kids are going to come home from school with sniffles and colds. We have to shut our business because of that," he said. "So it's not really worth sending the kids in if this going to happen again. We have to really think about it." Source: UK government testing guidance For larger families, it's not just testing availability that can be an issue. "It's an absolute nightmare trying to navigate the website as a family of eight," Christina Fox, from Stockton on Tees, said. The family was advised to book a test after phoning 111 when Christina's seven-year-old daughter developed a high fever and a cough. After trying for seven hours on Sunday, they had managed to secure three tests - for her seven-year-old, whose symptoms were worst, for another daughter who works for NHS 111 and couldn't return before testing negative, and for herself. "We had the app open on my phone, my daughter's phone and on the computer," Ms Fox said. "It really is like a pot of gold. You have to be there at the right time, the right second, and suddenly a test might appear." Despite those test results coming back negative, other family members have now developed symptoms, so they have had to continue to isolate. "We managed to get two more tests this morning," Christina said. "Because my 12-year-old goes to a different school to the younger kids, when I rang this morning they indicated that I should really be getting her tested. "It's just ridiculous. If they want kids back at school and college and they want the economy to start running again they need to make the provisions for proper testing." A government spokesperson said it was "processing more than a million tests a week and we recently announced new facilities and technology to process results even faster.  "If you do not have symptoms and are not eligible to get a test you can continue to protect yourself if you wash your hands, wear a face covering and follow social distancing rules."
Puppy prices soar during lockdown The price of puppies has more than doubled during lockdown with dogs costing almost £1,900 on average. Popular breeds have seen even sharper price increases, and puppies are often selling for £3,000 or more, according to a leading online marketplace.  Animal welfare charities have warned high prices could encourage "puppy farming", smuggling or dog theft. They are also concerned that it could lead to a dog welfare crisis as people return to work away from the home. Interest in getting a pet rose hugely after lockdown in late March, with high demand prompting many breeders to raise their prices.   Figures from the Pets4Homes website, based on about 150,000 adverts, showed the average price being asked from March to September was £1,883. During the same period last year the average price was £888. Cocker spaniels saw the highest year-on-year inflation (184%) followed by Jack Russells (180%), cockapoos (168%) and border collies (163%). Cavapoos - a cavalier spaniel and poodle crossbreed - now cost about £2,800 on average while English or American bulldogs typically sell for about £2,700. More than 1,600 dogs on the website are currently priced in excess of £3,000. Since leaving her parents' home a year ago Joanna Birrell has been desperately missing Poppy and Mila, the two Eurasier dogs she grew up with. Joanna is now living in Elderslie in Renfrewshire, where she works from home. As she is unlikely to return to the office any time soon, she thought now would be a good time to get a puppy.  "I've always wanted a dog since I moved out -  Mila, Poppy and me were like sisters," she said. "I'm always in the house so it would be a chance to get out with the dog. I need a reason to get out." Nine years ago when her parents bought Mila they paid about £500. Three years later Poppy cost them £1,000.  When Joanna started looking for puppies the prices came as a shock. "All the prices are £2,000 to £3,000 - or more," she said.  One seller advertising online offered to sell her a puppy for £3,500 but Joanna soon became suspicious. "She wasn't a registered breeder - it turned out to be a puppy farm," she said.  "She wouldn't let me travel down to see the dog. She wanted to send it to me by courier  - so alarm bells started ringing." Joanna has now found a recommended breeder willing to reserve her a pup from a future litter. She has agreed to pay about £2,000. Lee Gibson, from Pets4Homes, said between April and June visits to the website peaked at 20 million a month - double last year's figure. He said: "I think people had more time at home -  and with their children. They knew they could put the time and effort into training a dog. And secondly, there was a need for companionships. For many people lockdown has been a lonely time." The website acts as an online marketplace, with the dog breeders themselves determining what prices to charge.  "During this period there wasn't a huge increase in the numbers of puppies available - so it's simply the economics of supply and demand," he said. Claire Calder, from the Dogs Trust rescue charity, said lockdown had created a "perfect storm" for puppy sales with many people thinking this is the ideal time to take on a pet - but she's worried about the future.  "We're expecting a dog welfare crisis further down the line  - an increase in abandonment as people go back to work," she said. "The economic situation also means that some people may find they can't afford to look after a dog." Another danger is that high prices will further encourage the illegal importation of puppies or heavily pregnant dogs from smuggling hotspots in eastern or central Europe.  Even at the height of lockdown, she says it was "business as usual" for puppy smugglers - with dozens of rescued pups coming into the charity's  care.  Six puppies found in the back of a van which arrived in Dover from Romania had to be shaved because they were covered in oil.  Smuggled puppies are often in poor health or poorly socialised because of their early life experiences. Last month two spaniel puppies were found dying by the roadside in Lockerbie,  Dumfries and Galloway. It's believed they had been brought into the country at the port of Cairnryan, then dumped by puppy traffickers when they became unwell during the journey.  Many dogs advertised for sale are not what they seem - the Dogs Trust calls this "dogfishing" and offers this advice: Mike Flynn, from the Scottish SPCA animal charity, foresees another problem as new dog owners return to work.  "Many of these puppies will have grown up with people at home all the time," he said.  "Then all of sudden that comes to an end and dogs become bored or anxious because they're used to people being there. "Canine behaviourists are going to be in for a busy time." The coronavirus restrictions disrupted the charity's rehoming services - but that is now back up and running and he's hoping would-be dog owners will consider taking on an adult dog.  "Every dog we rehome is vet-checked - you know you're going to get a healthy animal. There are always unwanted dogs in the system, often through no fault of their own, perhaps because their owner is unable to look after them anymore." The latest data suggests interest in owning a dog is starting to plateau with website traffic returning to more normal levels.  Whether puppy prices return to pre-lockdown levels remains to be seen. 
Coronavirus: Evening update Here are five things you need to know about the coronavirus pandemic this Friday evening. We'll have another update for you on Saturday morning.  PM Boris Johnson has said the UK is "now seeing a second wave" of coronavirus, adding that "it's been inevitable". He said he did not want to put the country into another national lockdown but tighter social distancing restrictions might still be necessary. It is understood a new three-tiered set of rules is being considered, which could stop household-to-household contact. His comments come after tighter restrictions were announced for Lancashire, Merseyside, parts of the Midlands and West Yorkshire, to come into force from Tuesday.  Scientists say there is now widespread growth of the virus across the UK and the R number has risen to between 1.1 and 1.4. The R (reproduction) number describes how many people each infected person passes the virus on to. If it's above 1, numbers of cases increase very quickly. Government scientific advisers are warning of "far worse things to come" with cases thought to be exceeding 6,000 a day in England. "Hard but necessary" decisions on further Covid restrictions may need to be taken to prevent another full-scale lockdown in Scotland, Nicola Sturgeon has warned. The first minister said the next few days would be "critical" in deciding which steps would be taken to stop the spread of Covid-19 in the country. Ms Sturgeon said the virus was on the rise and was spreading "quite rapidly", with "greater restrictions" possibly being needed to "interrupt" that spread. There will be no New Year's Eve fireworks in London to ring in 2021, after the mayor revealed the display had been cancelled due to the coronavirus pandemic. About 100,000 people normally pack the streets around Victoria Embankment for the annual event, which is watched by about 12 million people on TV. However, Sadiq Khan told LBC that "we simply can't afford to have numbers of people congregating", adding that officials were instead "working on something people can enjoy in the comfort and safety of their living rooms on TV". With many people working from home during lockdown, and the prospect of returning to the office seeming a long way off, some people like Joanna Birrell thought it would be a good time to get a puppy. But the demand has been so great that many breeders raised their prices, with the cost of puppies more than doubling. Figures from the Pets4Homes website, based on about 150,000 adverts, showed the average price being asked for from March to September was £1,883. During the same period last year the average price was £888. Get a longer coronavirus briefing from the BBC in your inbox, each weekday morning, by signing up here. Find more information, advice and guides on our coronavirus page. Got concerns about whether your child should still be in school with sniffles and a sore throat? We might be able to give you some guidance. What questions do you have about coronavirus? In some cases, your question will be published, displaying your name, age and location as you provide it, unless you state otherwise. Your contact details will never be published. Please ensure you have read our terms & conditions and privacy policy. Use this form to ask your question:  If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the BBC website to submit your question or send them via email to YourQuestions@bbc.co.uk. Please include your name, age and location with any question you send in. 
Coronavirus: London's New Year's Eve fireworks cancelled 
Van Morrison lockdown protest songs 'dangerous' Northern Ireland's health minister has described three new songs by Sir Van Morrison that protest against coronavirus lockdowns as "dangerous". In the lyrics, Sir Van claims scientists are "making up crooked facts" to justify measures that "enslave" the population. "The new normal, is not normal," he sings. "We were born to be free". Health Minister Robin Swann said if Sir Van had scientific facts he should present them. By Olga Robinson, BBC Monitoring disinformation team Sir Van Morrison refers to a debunked Covid-19 conspiracy theory in one of his new anti-lockdown songs. The track As I Walked Out includes the lyrics: "Well on the government website from the 21 March 2020 / It said COVID-19 was no longer high risk". It's a reference to a UK government page that stated "Covid-19 is no longer considered to be a high consequence infectious disease (HCID) in the UK". That much is true - but that doesn't mean that coronavirus is harmless. The HCID designation is given for very fatal diseases: for example Ebola, which kills more than 50% of infected people. Covid-19 was initially classified as HCID in January - when little was known about it.  By March, more information and testing prompted authorities to revise the classification. It's now thought the Covid-19 fatality rate is closer to 1%. The danger, scientists say, is that it is also highly infectious, and there is no proven vaccine or treatment.  The government message was widely shared on social media, largely by coronavirus denialists and opponents of restrictions, who have cited it as "evidence" that the lockdown was based on a "hoax". Mr Swann said: "I don't know where he gets his facts. I know where the emotions are on this, but I will say that sort of messaging is dangerous. "Our messaging is about saving lives. "If Van wanted to sing a song about saving lives, then that would be more in keeping with where we are at the minute." He added: "If Van Morrison has counter-scientific facts that he's prepared to stand over, and have that debate with the chief scientific adviser, then I think that's how he should do it." Mr Swann has warned that Northern Ireland could again face tighter restrictions if new cases of Covid-19 continue to rise. Niall Murphy, a prominent solicitor who was critically ill with Covid-19, described the songs as "offensive and dangerous".  "I had a ventilator placed down my gullet while I was in an induced coma for 14 days, and the same time in recovery, and then in and out of intensive care and I would not want anybody to experience that," he told BBC Radio Ulster's Evening Extra programme.  "This very serious solemn public health message is being sullied by someone who should know better." Sean McGovern, a consultant in emergency medicine, said that figures showed that Covid-19 is the second most common cause of death in Northern Ireland, behind only cancer. He added that it was "wrong to use celebrity status to dilute the message and create problems". Belfast city councillor Emmet McDonough-Brown, of the Alliance Party, said he has asked the council to consider revoking Sir Van's freedom of Belfast over the songs. However, DUP MP Sammy Wilson has defended Sir Van and said he was "raising an important point". "It's a debate which has been going on for a long, long time, that we do ask the kind of questions that he has asked in these songs - how much of our freedom do we give to the government and how much should the government rely on us to use our common sense?" Sir Van recorded the three songs recently in Belfast and England. No More Lockdown is the most strident of the three tracks. "No more lockdown / No more government overreach," the musician sings in the chorus. "No more fascist bullies / Disturbing our peace. "No more taking of our freedom /  And our God given rights /  Pretending it's for our safety / When it's really to enslave." Sir Van has previously caused controversy by denouncing what he called the "pseudoscience" around coronavirus. Launching a campaign to "save live music" on his website last month, the 75-year-old said socially-distanced gigs were not economically viable.  "I call on my fellow singers, musicians, writers, producers, promoters and others in the industry to fight with me on this. Come forward, stand up, fight the pseudoscience and speak up." Sir Van said his new songs would be released at two-week intervals with the first, Born To Be Free, arriving on 25 September. In a statement announcing the songs, the musician said: "I'm not telling people what to do or think, the government is doing a great job of that already.  "It's about freedom of choice, I believe people should have the right to think for themselves." However, Mr Swann urged people to "listen to the health advice coming from the professionals - the chief medical officer and the chief scientific adviser.  "They are the people who see the dangers. "I know whose message I would rather listen to, that's the message of the professional, Dr Michael McBride and Professor Ian Young."
Simple Covid test gives results in 90 minutes A rapid test can accurately diagnose a coronavirus infection within 90 minutes without needing a specialist laboratory, say scientists. The study by Imperial College London showed the "lab-on-a-chip" gave comparable results to current tests.  The device is already being used in eight NHS hospitals to quickly identify patients who are carrying the virus. However, experts warn that the kit will not be a solution to the beleaguered Test and Trace programme. The device, developed by the company DnaNudge, can be used by anyone capable of taking a swab of the nose or throat.  The swab is placed inside a disposable blue cartridge which contains the chemicals needed for the test. This in turn is slotted into a shoebox-sized machine to perform the analysis. The study, published in the Lancet Microbe, compared results when samples from 386 people were given both the DnaNudge and standard laboratory tests.  "The performance was comparable, which is very reassuring when you're trying to bring in a new technology," said Prof Graham Cooke, from Imperial College London.  "Many tests involve a trade-off between speed and accuracy, but this test manages to achieve both." If the lab tests said the patient was free of the virus, so did the rapid test. If the lab tests said the patient had the virus, the rapid test agreed 94% of the time. The UK has already ordered 5,000 of the Nudgebox machines and 5.8 million of the disposable cartridges. However, there is a major drawback as each box can handle only one test at a time. So during a day, one box could perform around 16 tests.  Prof Cooke said: "They are useful in clinical settings when you are trying to make a rapid decision." He described a patient last week who was rapidly identified as having Covid and started on the drugs dexamethasone and remdesivir.  The tests could become even more useful for hospitals in the future as it is theoretically possible to test for coronavirus, flu and respiratory syncytial virus (a major reason young children are admitted to hospital) at the same time. However, the capacity issue means the test cannot solve the problems with NHS Test and Trace or help with Operation Moonshot and the plans for 10 million tests per day.  Testing 60,000 people at a stadium ahead of a football match would require 60,000 boxes, but it may be useful at smaller venues. Prof Lawrence Young, who was not part of the research and from the University of Warwick, said the technology was "innovative". He added: "The CovidNudge test could have an important role where near-patient, real-time decision-making is necessary, such as screening patients for admission to hospital or for surgery.   "[However,] this is not the answer to universal mass testing. " Follow James on Twitter
Covid-19 now 19th most common cause of death Coronavirus is now the 19th most common cause of death in Wales, according to the latest monthly mortality figures. The mortality rate due to Covid-19 has also fallen for the fourth month in a row, according to the Office for National Statistics (ONS). For August in Wales it was 11 deaths per 100,000 people due to Covid-19, although it is higher than in England (7.2 per 100,000). At the pandemic's peak in April it was 495.1 deaths per 100,000. Covid-19 was the biggest cause of death in Wales in both April and May, before dropping to third in June and then 13th in July. The ONS figures show heart disease followed by dementia were the leading causes for death in August in Wales - no different to the average. While Covid-19 is ranked 19th for cause of death in Wales, in England Covid-19 was the 24th most common cause of death for the month. The first death with an underlying cause of Covid-19 in Wales happened on 15 March. All causes and due to Covid-19 The figures up to the end of August show how deaths due to Covid-19 in Wales have gradually decreased, after the peak of 70 deaths on 8 April. Meanwhile, the ONS's separate opinions and lifestyle survey found 95% of adults in Britain said they had worn a face mask at least once. In Wales, 45% of people visiting restaurants, pubs or hairdressers said they were always asked for their contact details for the track and trace system, while 23% said they were never asked; 10% said sometimes.  A smaller proportion in England said they were always asked but two thirds of people in Scotland said they were always asked. The survey also found 78% of people in Wales always gave their personal contact details to the track and trace system if asked. Two per cent said "never."
Staff blamed for Covid outbreak at Bacup primary school 
Concerns over lockdown teen 'sexting' blackmail "He's threatened to share those pictures with my friends unless I send him more." Mia, 13, was duped into sending sexual photographs to someone she met online, who she has now found out is an adult posing as someone else. Charities including the NSPCC and Meic - a helpline for younger people in Wales - are concerned more young people are sharing naked images of themselves. They both said staff have seen an increase since lockdown.  "Many young people want to send them because it has been normalised in terms of social media," said Sabiha Azad, who works on Meic's helpline for children and young people. "Young people are at home alone and wanting intimacy and don't know how to explore it healthily, so they're being pressured into sending things," she said. "You can even get girls sending pictures on to their friends first to check if they look OK, or boys sharing the photos they get sent with others to compare them." The charities believe a significant increase in the time teenagers are spending online and a lack of face-to-face interaction has added to the pressure. Ms Azad added: "Speaking about the consequences is so important because this is the time that they can be exploited." The charities said most cases were believed to involve 14 to 16-year-olds, with a lot of people cropping out their heads from photographs.  However, Ms Azad said they often forget about other identifiable markers such as wallpaper, birth marks or piercings. Being pressured to send nudes is a sign of a controlling relationship and, despite campaigns to tackle this during lockdown, Ms Azad believes many risks to younger people - such as being blackmailed and threatened - have been overlooked. "I think there's a danger of forgetting young people, especially during the pandemic," she added. "I think that girls definitely see the repercussions of sending nudes more, they're much more likely to be referred to specialist services for support. One person developed an eating disorder following her image being shared because of the negative comments people made. "It's a very intimate image being shared and it may be shared to your family members. It often goes through schools, so everyone in that year group will probably see it, if not more." Mia (not her real name) contacted ChildLine after she met her blackmailer on Instagram and developed an online relationship with him.  "He convinced me to send pictures of myself which were sexual," she said. "Now he's threatened to share those pictures with my friends unless I send him more." Mia said she was too scared to tell her mum in case she got into trouble. Another victim, Chloe (not her real name), 14, met "a good-looking boy" on a teenage dating app who made her feel special while she was having a tough time at home. When he started asking for nude photos, she said she "agreed as a joke to talk dirty instead". But when she became uncomfortable, she blocked him, only for him to get in touch on another app, threatening to publish her profile picture next to the dirty messages. "I feel so guilty and disgusted for leading him on," she said. "He made me feel special when no-one else did.  "I don't want anyone to find out, after all most of it was my fault. I don't know what to do and I feel so guilty." It is illegal for under-18s to send or receive nudes, with NSPCC Cymru's Lucy O'Callaghan saying prevention was vital to tackle the issue. "Once a young person has sent a sexual image, it's out of their control," she said. "Whilst they're in a relationship, their boyfriend or girlfriend might promise not to send the image onwards, but sometimes when that relationship breaks down the other young person can share it and that might lead to it being shared again and again. "Then that can lead to bullying from from other young people. Sometimes when young people send one image, they can experience blackmail to send further images. So they can find themselves in a sort of a kind of a catch-22 situation." She urged young people to seek support from an adult.
Where might the next Welsh Covid-19 lockdown be? Six weeks ago, there were fears of a local lockdown in Wrexham. The local hospital was dealing with 63 coronavirus cases, the area had easily the highest infection rate in Wales and hundreds went to local mobile testing centres. Now, the area has one of the lowest infection rates in Wales - and it currently ranks 185th in the UK's list of hardest hit areas, as analysed by the BBC. But for two weeks running in August, Wrexham had more deaths involving Covid-19 than anywhere else in the UK. The consequence of that earlier spike was showing itself. That is why public health officials are closely watching any part of Wales which shows signs of a jump in cases. Daily blips can happen, so health officials look at the case rate over the last week - the proportion of positive tests per 100,000 population.  They also look at the positivity rate - how many people tested actually turn out to have Covid-19 - and with more than 9,000 being tested a day now, when that gets above 4% it becomes concerning. In Rhondda Cynon Taf (RCT), this rate is currently 5.7% - the highest proportion in Wales and double the national average. Health officials are also looking closely at where people with infections are living. Is it confined to their circle of family and friends or in the wider community? Per 100,000 population, by day With the easing of lockdown, pockets and clusters of cases were expected. The Welsh Government's track and trace system so far has a very high success rate, so knowing exactly where the infections are, and keeping a lid on the problem when it occurs, is key. Officials can access micro-data, so they can tell which neighbourhoods are affected. When they start to see a lot of cases that they can't track back to a source case then that's a strong indicator that there's community transmission. It means efforts to specifically isolate groups or individuals have failed to contain the virus. When that occurs it makes the prospect of a local lockdown far more likely. This is what happened in RCT. When cases move up too fast - and too high - local areas are watched very carefully. A few weeks ago, Cardiff showed an upsurge in cases. This showed up in mainly younger people and was blamed on socialising and people not social distancing. It was complicated by infected holidaymakers flying back from Greece.  Cardiff is now steady at 15.8 cases per 100,000 and an example of how a worrying rise in cases does not mean lockdown is inevitable. Combined totals for positive tests by day At the weekend, a surge in cases in Newport was blamed on parties around the recent bank holiday and its case rate is still of concern, alongside neighbouring Caerphilly - where the first lockdown was imposed more than a week ago. Caerphilly still has the highest case rate in Wales but RCT has almost caught it up. Both rank in the top 20 hardest hit areas in the UK - although this is dominated by towns in Greater Manchester and Lancashire. In recent days, there was a rise in cases in Powys and Conwy, and most recently in Bridgend - which currently has more than 20 cases per 100,000 - and Blaenau Gwent, on 34.4.  Merthyr Tydfil has the smallest population of any Welsh council area, so a small jump in infections can push up the case rate. But over the course of the pandemic it has the highest cumulative case rate, thanks mainly to an outbreak associated with workers from a meat plant. In the last week it has risen 46.4 cases per 100,000 - the fourth highest in Wales. More people are starting to see their GP with Covid-19 symptoms after a lull. But it is hospital admissions which are being watched keenly.  Cwm Taf Morgannwg - which covers RCT and Bridgend - had 14 covid-related admissions on Tuesday, the highest number since mid-June. Numbers by week The previous week had seen the highest level of admissions with coronavirus since the start of August. Despite a fall on the previous week, more than half of all Covid-19 hospital admissions in Wales are still in Aneurin Bevan, which covers Caerphilly and Newport, and Cwm Taf Morgannwg. Dr Robin Howe, of Public Health Wales, told BBC Radio Wales he feared the level of infections in these areas meant a "high risk" of a rise in hospital admissions and this in turn could lead to a rise in deaths. "We are seeing older age groups now being infected and there is obviously a sad risk that we may be seeing deaths. "We would expect that hospital admissions would be increasing around about now and we are perhaps starting to see that in Cwm Taf Morgannwg health board and there may be deaths in the coming days." 
Coronavirus: Six months of heartbreak and loss It is six months since the first death of someone in Northern Ireland who had tested positive for Covid-19. Since then the total recorded by the Department of Health has risen to 573, as of Wednesday.  BBC News NI spoke to three people whose lives have been affected by the virus. Having buried her brother and father, Brenda Doherty knows what it is like to grieve.  While she still misses and mourns them, Brenda says losing her mum Ruth to Covid-19 in March was very different. The 82-year-old was among the first to die in Northern Ireland with the virus.  Brenda says: "My sons and my brothers - they so much wanted to give mummy the same send-off that they'd given my dad, they wanted to carry her coffin. "I would have done a eulogy for my mum telling all her stories. I will do that at the memorial but it won't be the same because she won't be in front of me in her coffin."  Like so many other families they didn't get to sit at her hospital bedside or provide a wake and proper funeral service.  "We didn't say goodbye to my mum. We didn't see mum leaving the family home for the last time in her coffin. Or mum being put in the grave before Jennifer and I could stand at the graveside," Brenda says. "We didn't get to touch mummy's coffin, let alone see her in it. "That has impacted on the grief the same way that it has done for so many families.  "There were 12 hours from when we got the phone call to say she was dying and mummy's passing, I do relive them and I still ask questions - did she really understand why we all weren't there?"  Brenda says she struggles with how some people talk to her about Covid.   "I am constantly defending my mummy dying. I get asked, 'are you sure it was Covid?'" she says. "No-one ever asked me if I was sure dad died from cancer. They ask if she had underlying health conditions as though it then makes it alright.  "So all that impacts on my anger. It's all a rollercoaster of emotions. " The family are currently clearing their family home. There are boxes and boxes of memories.  On top of one particular box is a hospital bag of personal possessions.   Brenda says they have yet to open it as it is just too painful.  "Inside is the necklace that mum wore in hospital. Everything else was destroyed because of Covid, but we asked them to save it," she says. "It's the last thing which touched mum. That is precious." Prof Nichola Rooney is making her way through the pandemic wearing two hats - one as a mother of three children and the other as a clinical psychologist trying to offer advice and help make sense of it all.  "Grieving is a normal process but Covid has made it worse, because it means it's all happening in abnormal circumstances," Prof Rooney says. She is part of a Department of Health team building up bereavement services. "We know there is already greater demand for bereavement support and that need will grow," she says. "Some people who have buried loved ones during lockdown can't believe it has happened.  "The body not being at home, the lack of funeral, that feeling of being isolated.  "All of this has had a devastating impact. The normal traditions in Northern Ireland help, the wake, the walking behind the coffin, the funeral service, that all helps but for many families that hasn't been there."   According to Prof Rooney the Department of Health is putting resources in place to provide bereavement support.  She does not want to see people being handed out prescriptions for anti-depressants. "I think all this will extend the grieving process and will extend the feelings of anger and loss," she says. "Potentially there will be a huge impact on people's mental health. It is vital that grieving should not be confused with a mental illness - the two are completely separate."  Nurse Maire McAnaney says the six months since the first death have gone by in a flash. Back then nurses were transforming the wards into areas suitable to fight Covid.   "We were prepared, we were ready for the virus and we worked hard," she says. Nurses are used to dealing with death, but Maire says she experienced a different type of loss during the first wave of coronavirus. "A lot of our roles completely changed and that was a big loss," she says. "We came into work every morning and had a different job to do and had different priorities.  "We were working with different colleagues from different hospitals. That familiarity had gone.  "It was amazing and challenging to create a new team, but I missed the old one too.  "It was difficult and hard to deal with on top of everything else." 
Covid symptoms: Is it a cold, flu or coronavirus? Colds, flu and Covid-19 are caused by different viruses, but can have similar symptoms. It can be hard to judge which one you may have. Most people who feel ill with coronavirus will have at least one of the key symptoms: So what do you need to know about other things you may catch in the coming months? A high temperature is 37.8C or above. A fever like this can happen when the body is fighting off any infection - not just coronavirus.  It is best to use a thermometer to take a measure. But if you don't have one, check if you, or the person you are worried about, feels hot to the touch on the chest or back.  Although fever is a key coronavirus symptom, it could be flu or a different infection.  A high temperature is unlikely with a cold.  If you have a fever, arrange a coronavirus test - you can use the NHS 111 coronavirus service online. If you have a cold or flu you may well have a cough, along with other symptoms.  Flu usually comes on suddenly and sufferers will often experience muscle aches, chills, headaches, tiredness, a sore throat and a runny or stuffed nose, along with the cough. It feels worse than a heavy cold. Colds tend to develop more gradually and are less severe, although they do still make you feel unwell. Along with a cough, there may be sneezing and a sore throat and runny nose. Fever, chills, muscle aches and headaches are rare. A coronavirus cough means coughing a lot for more than an hour, or three or more coughing fits or "episodes" in 24 hours.  If you usually have a cough because of a long-standing medical condition like COPD, it may be worse than usual.  You should get tested for coronavirus if you develop a new, continuous cough.  These are key symptoms of coronavirus and mean you should get a test.  It could still be that you have a simple cold. But you need to check, even if you don't feel unwell, to avoid the risk of spreading the virus. Sneezing is not a symptom of coronavirus, and unless you also have a fever, cough or loss of smell and taste, you do not need a test.  Sneeze droplets can spread infections though, so catch them in a tissue, put it in the bin and then wash your hands.  Remember Hands. Face. Space to help stop the spread of coronavirus and other illnesses: More people in England are being offered a free flu jab this year too in the run-up to winter.  As we head into winter and with children back to school and more workplaces open, lots of people will be getting colds.  A runny nose is not a reason to get tested for coronavirus, says NHS Scotland. Data from an app that has been monitoring Covid-19 symptoms, reported by UK users, suggests children present less often with respiratory symptoms and are more likely to be suffering from fever, headaches, fatigue and skin rashes. People with coronavirus have a wide range of symptoms, ranging from mild to severe, although some will have none at all, but can still be infectious.  Symptoms may appear up to two weeks after exposure to coronavirus, but usually around day five. Feeling breathless can be a sign of a more serious coronavirus infection. If you are having trouble breathing, contact your doctor online or over the phone, or the NHS 111 online coronavirus service. If you are very worried about sudden shortness of breath ring 999. And the NHS advises: 
How do I get a coronavirus test? An increase in demand for coronavirus tests has led to local shortages - with some people being directed to test sites hundreds of miles from their homes. The government has defended its record on testing, but conceded that problems with the system are likely to continue. Testing people and then tracing the contacts of those infected is considered vital to stop the disease from spreading.  You should seek a test if you show one of these three key symptoms:  The idea of testing is to find people with the virus and keep them isolated to avoid it being spread through the wider community. Until you can get a test it's important you and your household self-isolate. The testing system has been experiencing a number of well-publicised problems and many people have struggled to book.  This has been caused by an increase in demand for tests (although it's unclear by how much), possibly connected to people returning from holiday and the start of the new school term. The Department of Health and Social Care has indicated lab capacity is the reason people have been unable to book tests in recent days.   There have been claims that the government underestimated the rise in cases.  But Health Secretary Matt Hancock has also claimed that too many people without symptoms have been trying to get tested. If you don't have symptoms, the government says you should not apply for a test - unless you are living in a local lockdown area. Coronavirus testing: What's going wrong? About 220,000 individual tests are being processed each day. The UK government wants laboratory daily testing capacity to rise from 245,000 to 500,000 a day by 31 October.  It has pledged to bring in mass coronavirus testing by the end of the year, even among people with no symptoms. The prime minister has spoken of his desire for 10 million Covid-19 tests a day by early 2021, but experts have expressed doubt that this is possible. People should only order an NHS test if they are showing coronavirus symptoms, work in certain high risk settings (such as care homes), or have been asked to by the authorities. Private tests can be obtained from clinics and health centres, with some offering a result within three days. Prices vary but are often around £100-£200 for a swab test - which shows if you are currently infected - and £50-£100 for an antibody test, which can indicate a past infection. However antibody tests do not work for everyone - and even some people who have had coronavirus do not have antibodies. Tests must have a ''CE mark'' to show they meet all legal criteria. If you test positive, the test supplier must let your local health authority know so it can trace outbreaks of the disease and learn more about its prevalence in the UK. There are two types of tests. The first checks if you are currently infected. A nose and throat swab is taken and then sent off to be processed at a lab.  New versions promising to deliver results in 90 minutes are being introduced in hospitals and care homes, where they can be processed using portable machines.  Tests on saliva are also being trialled,. The second test involves blood samples and looks for antibodies which indicate past, rather than current, infection.  At the moment, these are mainly being used by scientists to estimate what percentage of the population has had Covid, rather than to diagnose individuals. With the most common type of diagnostic test, scientists at the University of Bristol believe 20% of positive cases could falsely appear as negative - wrongly telling someone they are not infected.  This can be because the swab sample wasn't good enough, there were problems in the lab, or because of the stage of infection the patient was at when tested. Each country records testing slightly differently, so like-for-like comparisons won't be 100% accurate.  However, analysis from Our World In Data, a research team based at the University of Oxford, suggests the UK is now performing more tests than many other countries.  For example, the seven-day average up until 10 September showed the UK had carried out 2.8 tests per 1,000 people. This was ahead of European countries including France (2.1) and Spain and Germany (both 1.8).  Follow Rachel on Twitter
Newspaper headlines: PM warning and England faces 'two-week lockdown' 
Waterloo station death: Family of travelator engineer 'need answers' 
Sturgeon issues warning over tougher Covid rules "Hard but necessary" decisions on further Covid restrictions may need to be taken to prevent another full-scale lockdown, Nicola Sturgeon has warned. The first minister said the next few days would be "critical" in deciding which steps would be taken to stop the spread of Covid-19 in Scotland. She said "greater restrictions" might be needed to "interrupt" that spread. And she said the introduction of more national restrictions would have to be considered. Ms Sturgeon said the virus was on the rise and was spreading "quite rapidly". "If we want to avoid another full-scale lockdown, doing nothing almost certainly isn't an option," she said. "We have to consider now whether some national restrictions - we have national restrictions in place already, the six-two rule is a national restriction - do we need to have more national restrictions?" The new rule limiting social gatherings to a maximum of six people from two households came into effect on Monday. There are currently tighter local restrictions in force in the west of Scotland which prevent people visiting each others' homes.  Tougher rules are being introduced in several parts of England, and the UK government is believed to be considering imposing fresh restrictions on the whole of England. Ms Sturgeon told her daily briefing that there had been 203 positive tests in Scotland in the past 24 hours, and that one person who tested positive had died. That took the total number of deaths in Scotland under the measurement being used to 2,502. "The bottom line here is this virus is on the rise again," the first minister said.  "Cases are rising quite rapidly. The percentage of tests is not as high as March but is rising. And the R number is now above one." Ms Sturgeon said she had met a group of senior Scottish government officials to assess the situation and that discussions would take place with the four UK nations in the coming days. She has asked the prime minister to stage a Cobra meeting this weekend, although it is understood that UK government has no plans to hold a meeting. "The virus could get out of our grip again but it hasn't happened yet and we have time to prevent it from happening," she said. "That is down to the government and all of us." Ms Sturgeon warned that the country was following the path of France, which four weeks ago was in the same position that Scotland is now. It is now seeing 10,000 new cases a day, with hundreds of people in intensive care and the number of deaths increasing. "We must make sure we interrupt that and don't end up where they are now," she said. "We are facing the risk again of exponential growth in Covid. "No-one wants to see another full-scale lockdown. "And above all we want to keep schools and childcare open because we know how important that is to the education and to the broader wellbeing of children and young people." Ms Sturgeon asked people to abide by the current rules. "It may well be that if we are to interrupt and break this growth we will have to do more in the next few weeks," she added. "This weekend will be critical in the assessment of how best to do that." The leader of the Scottish Conservatives said he would support the introduction of any measures needed to help defeat the virus. Douglas Ross told BBC Scotland that every available option should be considered. "We have seen the issues that we have if we don't get on top of it, and if we don't make the difficult decisions to reimpose some restrictions," he said. "So everything that has to be done must be done to ensure we don't get a second wave of this pandemic that puts pressure on our hospitals and our NHS again. "I support everything that can be done to support beating this terrible pandemic." Ms Sturgeon has also urged people to take part in a UK-wide Covid infection survey. Up to 15,000 people in Scotland will be tested every fortnight. Households will be randomly selected for the survey and invited to participate. Those taking part will do their own tests and some will be asked to provide blood samples. The tests will continue for up to a year and will help scientists see how many people are infected with the virus over time and how many people will ultimately have the infection.
Hospital and care home visits suspended Hospital visits have been suspended due to concern over rising cases of coronavirus in parts of south Wales. People will only be allowed to visit a patient receiving end-of-life care, or to support a pregnant woman due to give birth at hospitals in Bridgend, Merthyr Tydfil and Rhondda Cynon Taf (RCT). Visits to care homes have also been stopped, Bridgend council said. RCT is currently subject to increased lockdown restrictions and there is increasing concern about nearby areas. Cwm Taf Morgannwg health board said it had suspended visits to Prince Charles Hospital in Merthyr Tydfil and the Royal Glamorgan in Llantristant, as well as other units to "protect" patients and staff. It said Covid-19 cases across its region were "continuing to rise and are a real cause for concern". Figures from Public Health Wales show RCT has the highest Covid-19 case rate in the past week with 83.7 cases per 100,000, Merthyr has 56.4 with 30.6 in Bridgend. The average for Wales is 23.5 cases per 100,000. Bridgend council said it and other authorities had suspended visits to care homes. "The changes will mean that until further notice, friends and family members will no longer be able to see their loved ones in either outdoor visits or indoor visits," it said, in a statement. "Virtual and online visits will be encouraged, and allowances will be made in circumstances where residents are nearing the end of their lives and with appropriate personal protective equipment (PPE) requirements in place."
One third of UK covid deaths in July and August due to other factors A third of the people recorded to have died from Covid-19 in July and August may have actually passed away due to other causes, such as cancer or being hit by a car, Oxford University research has suggested   Experts at Oxford University have found that around 30 per cent of those included in the Office for National Statistics' (ONS) coronavirus deaths toll over the summer actually died primarily from other conditions. The data comes as the Government introduces its new Rule of Six measures to combat the further spread of the disease. Analysis of Office for National Statistics suggests up to 30 per cent of Covid-19 deaths in July and August were actually brought about by other causes, such as cancer, heart attacks or car accidents Figures suggest one in 13 people who were said to have died from coronavirus during the whole pandemic did not die primarily from the disease The study shows that people who may have died from cancer or who were run over and killed, but who had tested positive for coronavirus, were included among the virus deaths even though it did not kill them. Figures revealed in The Telegraph state that approximately one in 13 people who were said to have died from coronavirus during the whole pandemic did not die primarily from the disease. This means that 7.8 per cent (3,877) of those listed as Covid-19 deaths by the Government did not die due to the virus being the primary cause.  Dr Jason Oke, of the Centre of Evidence Based Medicine at the university, told The Telegraph: 'The true death rate is important to know as it gives us an idea of impact. 'Clearly Covid was having a massive impact in March and April, but we need to now know if the disease is taking the same toll as before. The impact now seems to be lessening and, if true, which it certainly looks like at the moment as there is not the same fatality rate, then that will guide decisions on managing risk, so it's important to get this number right.'  England Six people from multiple households can meet up outdoors and indoors They must be one metre apart Scotland Up to six people aged 12-years and above from two households can meet outdoors and indoors  People must be two metres apart Wales Up to 30 people can meet outdoors Up to six people aged over 11-years from an extended household can meet indoors People must be two metres apart Northern Ireland Up to 15 people can meet outdoors Six people from two houses can meet indoors They too must be six metres apart  During the period of July to August this percentage rose to 28.8 per cent of all deaths. This figure would mean that Covid-19 was not the main cause of death for  465 of the Government's recorded cases out of 1,617 victims. The Government has added those who did not die primarily from Covid-19 to its official lists even though the World Health Organisation has said that even if coronavirus appears on a death certificate as a significant factor in the death it should not be included. Officially during the pandemic 263,826 deaths were recorded in England and Wales with 218,143 from other causes. Using the university's data this suggest that 45,683 died from coronavirus than the Government's figure of 49,560. The team from Oxford University is concerned that the over counting will get worse as the pandemic continues and that it will give a false representation of the true figure. The information has led Matt Hancock to order an urgent review of the data and this led the Government to reduce its covid-19 death figure by 5,377 to 43,329. From now on only deaths of people who tested positive for coronavirus within 28 days of death will be listed as having died from the virus.   Paul Hunter, a professor of medicine at the University of East Anglia, said it was difficult to say how much impact the virus may have had on someone's death. He said: 'It's a difficult judgement call to make. Say for example you have a patient with leukaemia and they get Covid-19 and a couple of weeks later they die. There is evidence that they had got some degree of pneumonia but what do you put as the primary cause of death? The primary cause is leukaemia but they might not have died if they had not got covid-19.'
This second wave of coronavirus is simply not as deadly Britain is now in grave danger of sleepwalking into a second national lockdown. The consequences of doing so would be disastrous. We find ourselves in this wretched position partly because the Government’s main achievement since the pandemic first emerged in China has not been suppressing the virus or saving lives or the economy, but in spreading irrational fear. I understand people’s anxieties, especially those who are elderly or suffering other chronic ailments.  The disruption to family life caused by the summer lockdown, and the new restrictions imposed since then, have demoralised and isolated many. Their fear has been compounded by the actions of a Government that is not in charge of events, buffeted by the conflicting advice of scientists.  The disruption to family life caused by the summer lockdown, and the new restrictions imposed since then, have demoralised and isolated many. Pictured: Loved-ones kept apart by glass at a care home during lockdown Britain’s much-expanded – but still imperfect – testing regime has detected an increased infection rate in many regions.  In some parts of the UK, the famous ‘R figure’ is nudging 1.4.  This is not disastrous, but it’s certainly far from ideal. However, a return to a blanket lockdown is the last thing we should be contemplating if we are serious about the nation’s mental and physical well-being.  We simply cannot afford to panic.    Yes, the rate of infection is rising. It has risen sharply in recent weeks in Spain too, leading to much talk about a ‘second wave’ there. Crucially, though, Spanish hospital admissions have lagged far behind the infection rate. On Tuesday, 154 people were admitted to hospital with Covid-19 in the UK, about double the week before.  The question is: will these cases be containable, as they seem to be in Spain, or will we soon be suffering the exponential increase in hospital admissions we all remember from April? This second wave or, in Boris Johnson’s typically memorable phrase, the second ‘hump on the camel’s back’, will not trigger the explosion in deaths we saw in the spring. To put it bluntly, it doesn’t matter much if healthy young people get Covid, so long as they do not pass it on to elderly or vulnerable relatives. Pictured: A Covid-19 patient is treated by staff in an ICU On the basis of all the current evidence, I believe it will be the former. For one thing, the vast majority of those currently testing positive for Covid are experiencing mild symptoms and remain in good overall health. The other point to remember is that the terrible death toll Britain suffered in the spring was due largely to the grotesque error of clearing hospitals of elderly patients and sending them, untested, into care homes.    While coronavirus rates rise across Europe, death figures remain comparatively low in France and Spain This second wave or, in Boris Johnson’s typically memorable phrase, the second ‘hump on the camel’s back’, will not trigger the explosion in deaths we saw in the spring. To put it bluntly, it doesn’t matter much if healthy young people get Covid, so long as they do not pass it on to elderly or vulnerable relatives.  Not a single young child has died in the UK from Covid without some other serious pre-existing condition.  According to Cambridge statistician Sir David Spiegelhalter, anyone under 50 is more likely to die in a car crash than from the virus.   Yet Health Secretary Matt Hancock has been on the airwaves this week floating the idea of a two-week national lockdown to serve as a ‘circuit-breaker’ for the virus. If only. A circuit breaker instantly shuts down a dangerous current of electricity. A time-limited lockdown, however, takes weeks to work, if at all – and there is every chance the virus would rebound as soon as it was lifted. Most depressingly of all, word has gone out from Whitehall to NHS trusts to start preparing wards for an influx of new cases. Just as NHS diagnostic services are revving back up again, they risk being forced into a screeching U-turn.  NHS hospitals need to get on with their routine business of keeping the nation healthy. For one thing, the vast majority of those currently testing positive for Covid are experiencing mild symptoms and remain in good overall health. Pictured: People use a relatively quiet Covid-19 testing centre in Bolton My field is cancer. I make no apology for highlighting that 30,000 extra cancer deaths will soon emerge thanks to delays in doctors picking up symptoms and in patients being referred for scans and tests. Tragically, these people are doomed to die, though many of them do not know it yet. Many will be thirty or forty years younger than the vast majority of those dying of Covid. And it’s not just cancer: Roughly 100,000 people suffer a stroke every year.  This year, almost one third of sufferers have put off seeking treatment during the pandemic, delaying the use of vital blood-thinning drugs that limit the long-term damage caused by a stroke. We live in an age when ministers who lack basic confidence in their abilities come up with ever sillier gimmicks about ‘circuit-breaking’ lockdowns and testing ‘moonshots’. We need basic common sense from the top, not confusion and retreat. Covid-19 is a very dangerous virus for the elderly, the medically vulnerable and the obese. Those groups need to take personal responsibility for keeping themselves safe, but that does not mean cowering at home. They should still take a walk along a river or in a park, keep away from crowds and remain in an environment where they, not others, can be responsible for keeping their distance.  All of us should be washing our hands regularly, and yes, wearing a mask – but the young and healthy must also get on with their lives. In the short term, this is a virus we are going to have to live with. Let us start doing so.
'Clear evidence' for rising Covid cases in children There is 'clear evidence,' that coronavirus infections among children as infection rates grew seven times higher in two to 11-year-olds between July and September. According to figures released yesterday, rates of infection for children aged between two and 11 are seven times higher than in July. The ONS also warned that positive tests were increasing among 17 to 24-year-olds, as well as 25 to 34-year-olds.  It calculated that around 59,800 people in England had Covid-19 by September 10, a rise of 51 per cent from the week before.  Coronavirus rates among children are seven times higher than in July, figures from the Office for National Statistics suggest Katherine Kent, co-head of analysis for the Covid-19 Infection Survey, said: 'These infections seem to be mostly focused in younger people who have seen the largest rise in infections.' Cases among children up the age of 11 rose from 0.04 per cent on July 23 to 0.28 per cent on September 10.  For 17 to 24-year-olds the rate increased from 0.04 per cent to 0.52 per cent, while the next age bracket, which rises to 34-year-olds, went from 0.03 per cent to 0.36.  Yesterday Public Health England announced 'acute respiratory infections' has risen five-fold in care homes in the week to September 13 and increased more than eight times in schools after term resumed in England.  Despite a long-term rise since July, weekly figures from PHE in fact suggest Covid-19 cases among people in their 20s actually fell for the first time in 10 weeks.  Those in the 20-29 age group still have the highest infection rate of anyone in the country but the number of cases per 100,000 people dropped in the second week of September. It fell from 55.9 per 100,000 to 51.8 between September 6 and September 13, according to PHE's most recent surveillance report.  Yvonne Doyle, a PHE medical director, told The Times: 'We're seeing clear signs this virus is now spreading widely across all age groups and I am particularly worried by the increase in rates of admission to hospital and intensive care among older people.' Speaking today, Professor Neil Ferguson said 97 per cent of children getting a test receive a negative result  Speaking about a recent surge in testing demand on BBC Radio 4 this morning, Professor Neil Ferguson played down potential infections in schools. He said: 'It was completely unanticipated by anyone that, what happened when the schools reopened was not necessarily a surge in Covid infections, but parents and teachers getting concerned about students coughing and spluttering, most of which was not Covid. 'We saw a huge surge in testing of children, most of whom, 97% of whom, tested negative. That surge in demand was not anticipated.'
Boris Johnson told there is 'no alternative' to second UK lockdown The Prime Minister said a second lockdown was the 'last thing anybody wants' but revealed his administration was considering whether it needed to 'go further' than the current national restrictions that were put in place this week Government scientists have spooked Boris Johnson with warnings of hundreds of daily coronavirus deaths 'within weeks' as they tell the terrified Prime Minister: 'There is no alternative to a second national lockdown'. Mr Johnson is now threatening to 'intensify' coronavirus restrictions as early as Tuesday as he blames the British public for the rise in cases - despite his repeated pleas for people to get back to offices and eat out in a bid to resuscitate Britain's flailing economy.  The Prime Minister is looking to ditch his Rule of Six and introduce fortnight-long 'circuit breakers' nationwide for six months, following claims that it was 'inevitable' that a second wave would hit the country last night.   The new approach to get the UK through winter would see it alternate periods of stricter measures, including bans on all social contact between households and shutting down hospitality and leisure venues like bars and restaurants, with intervals of relaxation. Schools will be shut as a 'last resort', a Whitehall source claimed. It is understood that the new 'circuit break' shutdown could be announced via television press conference on Tuesday, in a move reminiscent of the Government's behaviour during the peak of the pandemic.  The Government is mulling what has been described as a 'circuit breaker' in a bid to stem the spread of coronavirus. But it would not be quite as draconian as the lockdown that was imposed at the previous height of the crisis in March. Instead it would be similar to the lockdowns that have been introduced locally in areas with high infection levels.  Restrictions would be imposed nationwide for perhaps a fortnight, in the hope that short sharp action can break the chain of transmission.  LOCKED DOWN:   UNLOCKED  Visiting the Vaccines Manufacturing Innovation Centre construction site near Oxford, Mr Johnson said: 'What I can certainly say about parents and schools is we want to keep the schools open, that is going to happen. 'We want to try and keep all parts of the economy open as far as we possibly can - I don't think anybody wants to go into a second lockdown but clearly when you look at what is happening, you have got to wonder whether we need to go further than the rule of six that we have brought in on Monday, so we will be looking at the local lockdowns we have got in large parts of the country now, looking at what we can do to intensify things that help bring the rate of infection down there, but also looking at other measures as well.'  Officials, including England's chief medical officer Professor Chris Whitty and chief scientific adviser Sir Patrick Vallance, are thought to be arguing for tough restrictions as panic within official circles grows.  Today the Government's original lockdown architect, Professor Neil Ferguson of Imperial College London, recommended 'rolling back' freedoms 'sooner rather than later' by 'reducing contact rates between people'.   The epidemiologist, who was sacked from SAGE for flouting his own lockdown rules, told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: 'Right now we're at about the levels of infections that we were seeing in late February, if we leave it at another two to four weeks we will be back at levels we were seeing more like mid March.  'That's going to clearly cause deaths... I think some additional measures are likely to be needed sooner rather than later, the timing of any more intensive policy, temporary policy, is open to question'.  But the measures are thought to have been met with protests from Chancellor Rishi Sunak, who has warned against introducing new blanket restrictions by pointing to huge damage already inflicted to the economy. Government sources claim that Mr Sunak gave 'sombre warnings' to the Prime Minister as he highlighted the severity of the damage caused to the UK economy as a result of the March lockdown - while Mr Johnson shrugged off the 'grim' economic forecasts, claiming that 'he was confident it will all be OK in the end'.   Business leaders echoed the Chancellor's concerns and warned that a second lockdown would tank the economy, with the British Chambers of Commerce saying: 'Uncertainty and speculation around future national restrictions will sap business and consumer confidence at a delicate moment for the economy'.  The Government's handling of the crisis is understood to be playing on Mr Johnson's mind, with No 10 sources insisting he is already eyeing up the next General Election. But with Sir Keir Starmer's Labour Party now neck-and-neck with the Tories at the polls, backbenchers - who are angry with Mr Johnson's 'madman' threat to renege on his Brexit divorce deal - could be contemplating a revolt before then.  The dramatic move came as the UK's daily infections hit a four-month high of 4,322, with figures showing the outbreak has nearly doubled in size in a week and the R number being potentially as high as 1.4.   Parts of England are being forced back into lockdown, with curbs including a 10pm curfew on pubs and restaurants and a ban on socialising outside of households across the North West, Midlands and West Yorkshire from Tuesday. A total of around 13 million people are now under under local restrictions. In other coronavirus developments:  Boris Johnson on dealing with the 'inevitable' second wave Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg has died at age 87 People party in street in Nottingham despite second wave imminent Couple built natural swimming pool in back garden in two years Birmingham freshers enjoy night out in Birmingham city centre Daredevil climber spotted on Paris skyscraper bare hands Lord McColl says don't blame COVID rates on Government Horrifying moment toddlers are crushed by falling cabinet drawers Drinkers in Newcastle partake in messy night out prior to lockdown Paraglider pulls off perfect ground spiral manoeuvre Listen at an alligator inhaling helium in the name of science Fascinating new views of Jupiter taken by the Hubble Space Telescope Government scientists have spooked Boris Johnson with warnings of hundreds of daily coronavirus deaths 'within weeks' as they tell the terrified Prime Minister: 'There is no alternative to a second national lockdown'  Mr Johnson is now threatening to 'intensify' coronavirus restrictions as early as Tuesday, including banning small gatherings of friends and family as he blames the British public for the rise in cases  Three revellers pose for a photograph in Newcastle city centre as bars closed at 10pm last night under new curfew rules A graphic shows where the latest restrictions are being enforced across Great Britain  Is there really another spike in hospitalisations? Public officials are warning that hospitalisations in the UK are doubling every eight days - but data show that even current hospitalisations are a fraction of those seen at the height of the pandemic  SAGE adviser Professor Graham Medley, the new architect of the Government's response to coronavirus, has argued for a half-term shutdown of leisure and hospitality, claiming that 'short, planned periods of reducing R below one can greatly reduce the risk of longer, unplanned emergency lockdowns'.  'This option has to be balanced with local and more targeted measures which are less economically and socially disruptive, but do not appear, to date, to have prevented exponential increase of infection,' he said. The Mayor of London Sadiq Khan has admitted it is 'increasingly likely' that lockdown restrictions will soon be needed to slow the spread of coronavirus in the capital. Mr Khan said he was of the 'firm view' that action should be taken before the virus spirals out of control, and leaders were considering measures already imposed in other parts of the UK. In a statement, he said he held an emergency meeting with London council leaders, the Government and Public Heath England (PHE) to discuss the next steps. Mr Khan added: 'The Prime Minister has said that we are now seeing the start of a second wave of Covid-19 across the UK. Londoners should also know that I am extremely concerned by the latest evidence I've seen today from public health experts about the accelerating speed at which Covid-19 is now spreading here in London. 'It is increasingly likely that, in London, additional measures will soon be required to slow the spread of the virus. We will be considering some of the measures which have already been imposed in other parts of the UK. 'I am of the firm view that we should not wait, as happened six months ago, for this virus to again spiral out of control before taking action.'    'If we are going to have to have another period of lockdown then presumably it would be better to know in advance when and for how long it will be (to allow) individuals and businesses to prepare.'  SAGE adviser Professor Susan Michie warned ministers not to repeat the mistake of the March lockdown in implementing measures to slowly, as she proposed closing pubs, bars and restaurants, slashing the number of households meeting, work from home if possible and an extension of furlough until 2021. 'We need a stitch in time. We need to learn the lessons of the spring. Every day's delay to a step change in measures to restrict transmission when it is increasing exponentially will be expensive in terms of health and lives in the short term and the economy in the long term,' she told The Daily Telegraph. Another SAGE adviser called for longer and quicker lockdowns, saying it was 'the only thing that we really know' that works, according to The Times. A Whitehall source said there was a fear in official circles of being accused of 'being sluggish' if they were slow to act to rising cases, adding: 'It feels like we're back where we were in February and March'.   Nightingale hospitals were today ordered to be ready to open again within 48 hours - and another swathe of England was plunged into lockdown. Health bosses have revealed the temporary hospital in Birmingham's NEC arena has been placed on standby so it can start treating patients within two to three days.   Yvonne Doyle, Public Health England boss, said: 'We're seeing clear signs this virus is now spreading widely across all age groups and I am particularly worried by the increase in rates of admission to hospital and intensive care among older people. This could be a warning of far worse things to come.' A senior Government source told The Daily Telegraph: 'The Prime Minister has a very difficult challenge.  'At the moment we are on the same trajectory of Spain and France. Spain (on Thursday) clocked 240 deaths - they are six weeks ahead of us so it is now being translated from cases to deaths.    'By mid to late October if we don't do anything then obviously that's going to put us in a situation that looks more like we were earlier in the year.'  The Government is also looking at the possibility of introducing 'targeted shielding' that would see people with serious medical conditions given tailored advice. Nicola Sturgeon and Sir Keir Starmer yesterday demanded the Prime Minister convene an emergency Cobra meeting this weekend to discuss the rise in cases. The Scottish first minister said she had requested a meeting between Boris Johnson and the devolved administrations. She also warned of further national restrictions, telling Scots 'hard but necessary' decisions may have to be taken in the next few days. Miss Sturgeon said she hoped to avoid a second national lockdown, adding: 'Ideally we will be able to have a joined-up approach across the UK.' She added that she could not remember the last time she spoke to Mr Johnson. Labour leader Sir Keir echoed her plea. He said: 'This is the time for swift, decisive national action.' Miss Sturgeon claimed most of the recent discussions between the Government and the three devolved administrations have involved Cabinet Office minister Michael Gove rather than the Prime Minister. Unlike previously when more than two million people across England were given blanket instructions to stay at home for several months, individuals would be given more specific recommendations according to how vulnerable they were deemed to be. There is concern in No 10 that people are flouting the 'rule of six' that came into force in England on Monday. Mr Johnson said last night said he was considering whether the Government needed to 'go further' than the current national restrictions. He said: 'We're looking very carefully at the spread of the pandemic as it evolves over the last few days and there's no question, as I've said for several weeks now, that we could expect (and) are now seeing a second wave coming in.  'We are seeing it in France, in Spain, across Europe – it has been absolutely, I'm afraid, inevitable we were going to see it in this country.'  Spain recorded 239 deaths in a single day this week. The Prime Minister insisted a second lockdown was the 'last thing anybody wants' but said the current measures would need to be kept 'under review'. He added: 'On Monday, we brought in the measures that we did, the 'rule of six', to really try and restrict what people are doing and to bring in a new buffer.  'But the crucial thing is at the same time to observe the basic rules on social distancing – hands, face, space – that is what everybody has got to do if we want to continue to beat this thing. 'But as we look at this particular curve and what is happening now, clearly we are going to keep everything under review. I don't want to get into a second national lockdown at all – it is the last thing anybody wants.  'I don't want to go into bigger lockdown measures at all, we want to keep schools open. We want to keep the economy open as far as we possibly can, we want to keep businesses going.  'The only way we can do that is obviously if people follow the guidance.' Asked about the possibility of a two-week October half-term in order to bring in a short lockdown, Mr Johnson said: 'We want to keep the schools open, that is going to happen. We want to try and keep all parts of the economy open as far as we possibly can.' Earlier in the day, Matt Hancock suggested measures would need to be in place into next year. The Health Secretary said: 'The strategy is to keep the virus down as much as is possible whilst protecting education and the economy. And doing everything we possibly can for the cavalry that's on the horizon – the vaccine and mass testing, and the treatments that, frankly, this country has done more than any other around the world to develop.'    Coronavirus cases have been increasing rapidly across NE England. Newcastle has recorded a sharp rise in its weekly infection rate, up from 51.2 cases for every 100,000 people to 64.1 in the seven days to September 13 Hundreds of revellers hit the town in Newcastle last night to sink their final pints before a 10pm curfew, while partygoers in Leeds made the most of what could be their final weekend of freedom as the city teeters on the brink of its own lockdown Rising hospitalisations among people with coronavirus could mean admissions hit levels not seen since April next month, current trends show as Matt Hancock warned patient numbers are doubling every eight days. Another 4,322 people have been diagnosed with Covid-19, the Government announced today in the highest one-day rise since May 8, as a raft of worrying statistics revealed the Covid-19 crisis appears to be rebounding.  Data from the Office for National Statistics suggests 6,000 people are catching the life-threatening illness every day in England while hospital admissions have doubled in a week and government scientists warn the R rate could now be as high as 1.4. The Health Secretary has warned another blanket national lockdown was the 'last line of defence' but said now is a 'big moment for the country'.  Government data shows 183 newly-infected Covid-19 patients were admitted to hospitals in England on Wednesday, compared to just 84 eight days ago and just 38 on August 30. It means 160 patients are needing NHS care each day, on average — triple the figure of 52 on September 1.  Hundreds of revellers hit the town in Newcastle last night to sink their final pints before a 10pm curfew, while partygoers in Leeds made the most of what could be their final weekend of freedom as the city teeters on the brink of its own lockdown.   Students and young people appeared undeterred by the new early curfew as they flocked to Big Market - a popular area with bars and pubs in Newcastle - in the early evening and knocked back drinks. Young women were pictured laughing and saying cheers with their final pints before being kicked out by bar staff at 10pm. Some revellers were clearly not done with the night's partying and were seen picking up booze from local convenience stores after the pubs shut up shop. Police officers were pictured surveying empty streets as partygoers headed home and the city centre became eerily quiet for a Friday night.  Meanwhile in Leeds people took to the streets in droves as the city faces its own lockdown after a surge in coronavirus cases. Groups of people gathered in the city centre and queued for bars, as bouncers used temperature guns on patrons as part of new safety measures. Tough new restrictions to control the spread of coronavirus were announced for the North East of England last night, ahead of further rules which were unveiled today across parts of the North West, Midlands and West Yorkshire.   The latest measures, which include a 10pm curfew on pubs and bars, will affect Newcastle, Gateshead, Sunderland, Northumberland, South Tyneside, North Tyneside and County Durham.   Similar lockdown measures will then come into force in Lancashire, Merseyside, Warrington, Halton, Wolverhampton, Oadby & Wigston, and parts of Bradford, Kirklees and Calderdale from Tuesday. Residents in these areas are banned from socialising in homes or gardens with people outside their household or 'bubble' and food and drink venues are restricted to table service only. Restaurants, bars and pubs will have to close between 10pm and 5am.   Drinkers last night flocked to watering holes across the North East for a final night of carnage after Health Secretary Matt Hancock confirmed the region would be hit by a 10pm curfew on pubs and bars starting tonight. Those in Newcastle, where 40,000 university students are expected to return in the coming days, were photographed in close proximity outside busy clubs and bars despite the growing numbers of Covid-19 cases in the area. Similar scenes were spotted in Leeds last night, as rising numbers of infections in the city prompted warnings the it may soon head in the same direction as other parts of West Yorkshire with additional restrictions.   The increased measures, which were announced today across parts of the North West, Midlands and West Yorkshire, will mean a total of 13 million people are now under lockdown restrictions across Britain.  It comes as Mr Hancock admitted that a new national crackdown is on the cards as he warned infections are 'accelerating across the country' and more people will die due to the pandemic. The Health Secretary pleaded with the public to 'come together to tackle this virus' as ministers consider imposing draconian restrictions for a fortnight in a 'circuit break' to stop the spread.    Revellers still had a great time in Newcastle city centre despite the curfew in place at 10pm tonight Drinkers in Newcastle were booted out of the pub at 10pm as the city gets used to its newly imposed lockdown Young people enjoyed a night out in Newcastle tonight, but it was enjoyed at 10pm due to a newly imposed curfew Police officers survey the normally heaving Big Market area of Newcastle. Pubs are closing at 10pm due to a new localised lockdown to battle the pandemic Hospitals have been warned they must clear beds and brace themselves for a rise in coronavirus patients in the next few weeks.  Covid-19 cases, hospital admissions and deaths are all on the rise, government figures revealed yesterday as more than 10 million people will soon be living under local lockdowns as the North East became the latest to impose restrictions.  Yesterday another 3,395 Covid-19 infections were recorded, meaning the rolling seven-day average number of cases has risen 2 per cent in a day and 33 per cent in a week to 3,354.   The uptick is prompting concerns the country is moving towards a second peak of the virus.  MPs in London have been informed of plans to increase 'step down' beds in the capital, as reported by The Telegraph.  The beds will be made available to coronavirus patients who no longer need any hospital treatment, but can recover from the disease while isolating.  Mr Hancock said a national lockdown was the 'last line of defence'. But he warned that it was a 'big moment for the country' with cases now doubling every eight days, and unless the Rule of Six restrictions worked more would have to be done. 'The virus is clearly accelerating across the country,' he told Sky News. 'We have got to take the necessary action to keep people safe. We will do what it takes to keep people safe.'         He also insisted that coronavirus 'tests are available' despite people waiting in queues that last for hours, only to be turned away by staff when arriving at the swab centres.  No10 officials have said they are not aware of anything to suggest that tests are not available 'in some parts of the country' as there are reports of a nationwide testing fiasco.   When asked about testing availability, a No10 spokesman told reporters: 'We are ramping up capacity or we are working to ramp up capacity in terms of tests. We are obviously targeting those tests in terms of areas where we are seeing higher rates of infections. He was asked: 'Are you saying tests are available in every part of the country, despite the fact that many of our readers and viewers are saying that they are not? He replied: 'You have seen the Health Secretary's words. I am not aware of anything to suggest that tests aren't available in some parts of the country.'  But desperate Britons have told of their battle to get a coronavirus swab this week, with two parents missing an appointment for their unwell daughter because they were stuck in traffic for three hours.  Parents Thandio and Marcio missed their slot at the newly-opened testing centre in Catford, Lewisham, after being stuck in gridlocked traffic leading up to the facility. Their 11-year-old daughter had been rushed to hospital in an ambulance that morning, but when she was discharged, A&E medics told her parents to book her in for a swab at a testing centre, the Telegraph reported. They told the newspaper at the scene: 'There's no one here. We had an appointment but we missed it because were stuck in traffic. She'll need to go into isolation and our other children can't go to school.'     Meanwhile, a leading scientist warned that Covid testing 'is dying on its a**e' as he said he was 'appalled by what I saw' at the Government's testing labs.  Concerns have been raised about the Government's seven 'Lighthouse Labs' and their ability to process results, due to shortages of staff and equipment.     The proportion of people getting their Covid-19 test results within 24 hours has plummeted for all kinds of test, performance data showed today Genomics scientist and inventor Phil Robinson, who was invited into one of the labs to see how they work, said it was poorly managed, running out of staff and had failed to set up automatic processes - despite fears that the UK would inevitably be hit by a second wave.  He told The Times: 'Every part of the process was poor. The other ludicrous issue they have is they have 20 different types of tube coming into the lab. When you are running a high throughput lab it's only sensible to have one. Why they haven't standardised that I have no idea. 'Testing is dying on its a**e because schools are going back and here we are again. They haven't used that period of lockdown to implement automation.' Amid chaos in the laboratories, the Government's test and trace system was also criticised as being 'barely functional', with workers taking up to two weeks to contact friends, relatives and workmates of those who have tested positive for Covid-19. Baroness Dido Harding, who leads the test and trace system, admitted yesterday that demand for swabs is up to four times Britain's capacity, but declared the sudden rise as children returned to school and parents went back to the office had not been predicted - despite repeated warnings.  The Government's testing fiasco has seen hundreds of people who queued for Covid swabs at a south London testing centre turned away after not being sent important QR codes, while other sites across the country have been practically deserted.  Boris Johnson on dealing with the 'inevitable' second wave Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg has died at age 87 People party in street in Nottingham despite second wave imminent Couple built natural swimming pool in back garden in two years Birmingham freshers enjoy night out in Birmingham city centre Daredevil climber spotted on Paris skyscraper bare hands Lord McColl says don't blame COVID rates on Government Horrifying moment toddlers are crushed by falling cabinet drawers Drinkers in Newcastle partake in messy night out prior to lockdown Paraglider pulls off perfect ground spiral manoeuvre Listen at an alligator inhaling helium in the name of science Joan Collins claims late sister sent her sign as house had power cut National or local lockdown, shielding, curfew or do nothing? As Covid infections double each week, debate is raging… what IS best for Britain, asks BEN SPENCER It's the debate dividing Britain. Covid infections are doubling each week and experts believe the death toll will soon start to climb. Should ministers act quickly to stop a second wave or hold off to prevent more damage to the economy? With no easy options, these are some of the possibilities they are considering. DO NOTHING Simply carry on through to Spring with the current level of restrictions. Revellers enjoy drinks in Newcastle on the first day after strict coronavirus curfews were introduced PROS: The lockdown imposed in March successfully curbed infections, but had a devastating impact on businesses, education and the NHS. Boris Johnson is desperate to avoid a repeat. There is a strong argument that the need to act is not nearly as urgent as it was in the spring.  We now know the virus has little impact on anyone other than the elderly, doctors are much better at treating it and they now have effective drugs. And although our testing system is not what it should be, capacity is 25 times bigger than it was in March. Death rates are currently tiny – with suicides, flu and pneumonia all taking far more lives than the dreaded coronavirus. CONS: It is clear Covid is getting out of control in France, Spain and the US. Doing nothing could see Britain going down the same road – with a wave of deaths as rising infections feed through from the young into more at-risk groups. CHANCE OF THIS HAPPENING: 1/5 LOCAL LOCKDOWNS Localised restrictions, already imposed across swathes of the UK encompassing 13million people, could be extended when outbreaks flare. PROS: Targeted, proportionate restrictions in virus hotspots slow the spread and spare the rest of the country. This was successfully carried out in Leicester over the summer, with rates quickly slashed. CONS: Such specific measures rely on an effective test and trace programme – and at the moment the system is not up to scratch. Critics also point out that rates in many parts of the North West, which have been subject to restrictions for weeks, have actually continued to rise. And with local lockdown widened to the North East and Lancashire, there are now more than 13million people affected.  With the lives of so many British citizens curtailed, this is arguably just a national lockdown imposed by stealth. Local action is also divisive – national unity will be badly hit if only half the country is allowed to celebrate a family Christmas. CHANCE OF THIS HAPPENING: 4/5 SHIELDING Most young people are barely affected by Covid. So a logical solution is to shield the elderly. Most young people are barely affected by Covid. So a logical solution is to shield the elderly PROS: This could protect the most at-risk while allowing the rest of the population to keep the economy going. The Government reportedly already has tentative plans to assign each person over the age of 50 a 'risk score'. CONS: A crude version was used during the first lockdown, with 2.2million people with cancer, asthma and other conditions asked to stay indoors. That scheme was riddled with problems – many of those asked to shield were in fact not particularly susceptible. Any new scheme would have to be far more targeted.  But it would rely heavily on age – by far the biggest risk factor for Covid. This will be resisted by many pensioners who see themselves as perfectly healthy. It is also impossible to effectively shield those who need it most – care home residents, who require contact with carers. CHANCE OF THIS HAPPENING: 4/5 CURFEW Curfews on the opening of bars and restaurants have already been used in many areas – and could be rolled out nationwide. PROS: The increase in infection rates this summer was put down to young people gathering in pubs, homes and at illegal raves. Curfews, trialled in Bolton and other areas, aim to stop this by ordering restaurants and pubs to close at 10pm. This is arguably a proportionate response – asking pubs to close an hour or two early is better than forcing them to shut entirely. CONS: It is clearly harmful to the hospitality industry and is widely seen as a chilling restriction of personal liberties. Curfews can only do so much. After all, most of the population are not out and about beyond 10pm. CHANCE OF THIS HAPPENING: 4/5 CIRCUIT BREAK This is the option being most carefully considered. Ministers hope a short lockdown – lasting as little as two weeks – would stop the pattern of infection and reinfection driving cases up. PROS: If people do not meet and interact, the virus cannot pass between them, the chain of transmission is broken and infection rates will stop rising. If this is done quickly it could nip the problem in the bud before rates rise to dangerous levels. And if it is imposed over the October half term, it would have a limited impact on children's education. Scientists hope such a measure would also give some breathing room to allow the testing programme to get back on track. And if infection rates drop far enough, it might even allow Christmas to take place after all. CONS: Scientists worry that as soon as restrictions are lifted, cases would rise again. This raises the prospect of the country following an 'on-off' lockdown pattern until a vaccine becomes available. Two weeks might simply not be long enough – meaning restrictions might drag on and on and turn into a full lockdown. CHANCE OF THIS HAPPENING: 4/5 NATIONAL LOCKDOWN A return to spring-style nationwide measures which led to most people having to work from home, with schools, non-essential shops and workplaces shut. A return to spring-style nationwide measures would see most people having to work from home, with venues such as pubs closed PROS: If Covid infections get out of control, and if they coincide with a bad winter flu season, the death toll could be monumental. Mr Johnson might be left with little choice but to order another lockdown.  There are also ways to soften the blow – primarily keeping schools open. Many scientists now believe closing schools was unnecessary last time round. Children are not in danger from the virus yet untold harm was done to their education and mental health by keeping them at home. It also made it hard for parents to work. CONS: This is the 'nuclear' option the Prime Minister does not want to take, an extreme that even the gloomiest of scientists do not currently advocate.  With 'crisis fatigue' setting in, he also might find it much harder to persuade people to follow the rules a second time round. And even a pared-back version of national restrictions would risk doing more harm than good. The economy is already holed below the water line – a return to lockdown could sink it completely. CHANCE OF THIS HAPPENING: 2/5
Hugh Jackman sports a face mask as he goes for a walk in New York City He's the Australian actor who has been based in New York for years with his family.   And on Friday, Hugh Jackman was spotted wearing a face mask as he enjoyed a walk in the city, where he's been in lockdown amid the coronavirus pandemic.  The 51-year-old cut a casual figure in a black T-shirt from the Laughing Man Coffee Company, which is an ethical coffee shop chain that he co-founded. Out and about: On Friday, Australian actor Hugh Jackman (pictured) sported a face mask and cut a casual figure as he went for a walk in New York City Inspired by a poverty-stricken coffee farmer he met in Ethiopia, Hugh donates all of his profits from the coffee shop to support 'educational programs, community development and social entrepreneurs around the world'.  During his walk on Friday, the Wolverine star teamed his T-shirt with navy blue chinos, blue shoes and had a sweatshirt wrapped around his waist. The Greatest Showman star also held a protein shaker in one hand and what appeared to be keys.  Lastly, he had his hair swept in a side-part for an effortless look. His own best advertisement! The 51-year-old cut a casual figure in a black T-shirt from the Laughing Man Coffee Company, which is an ethical coffee shop chain that he co-founded A good cause: Inspired by a poverty-stricken coffee farmer he met in Ethiopia, Hugh donates all of his profits from the coffee shop to support 'educational programs, community development and social entrepreneurs around the world' Hugh was previously spotted going for a walk with his actress-wife Deborra-Lee Furness, 64, and their two dogs, Dali and Allegra, on Thursday.    The couple and their children Ava, 14, and Oscar, 20, recently returned to New York from their stunning holiday home in the Hamptons.  In July, Hugh revealed he was homesick for Australia after a lengthy lockdown in New York City due to the coronavirus pandemic.   Keeping it casual: He also wore blue shoes, navy blue chinos and had a sweatshirt wrapped around his waist while glasses hanging on his T-shirt  Deborra-lee and the couple's children, Oscar and Ava, had initially been in Melbourne when COVID-19 was declared a pandemic in March. But they returned to the U.S. just four days later in order to keep the family together. Later this month, Hugh will virtually attend The 72nd Primetime Emmy Awards. Locked in: In July, The Greatest Showman actor revealed he was homesick for Australia after a lengthy lockdown in New York City due to the coronavirus pandemic. Pictured with wife Deborra-lee He is one of five nominees up for an Emmy Award for Lead Actor in a Limited TV series or Movie for his role as Frank Tassone in Bad Education.  'I'm humbled by the nominations for both me and the film and excited to be named with such a talented group of actors,' Hugh said in a statement at the time.  Due to the global health crisis, the Emmy Awards will be a bit different this year.  Jimmy Kimmel will host the show from a stage inside California's Staples Center, which will have no red carpet or audience, Variety reported last month.  'I'm humbled by the nominations': Hugh was recently nominated for an Emmy Award for Lead Actor in a Limited TV series or Movie for his role as Frank Tassone in Bad Education
Anti-lockdown protesters chased by police from Melbourne park Anti-lockdown protesters swarming a suburban park in Melbourne have been chased off by police on horseback. Up to 150 people gathering at Elsternwick Park in Brighton dispersed to Elwood when faced with a long line of officers at the site, 11km from Melbourne's CBD. Protests were announced by rally organisers about 10.30am on Saturday - half an hour before kicking off at the State Library, and a second closely following at 12pm.  Law enforcement teams circling Elsternwick Park included officers from Public Order Response, the Mounted Unit and Highway Patrol. A helicopter also monitored the situation from above. Boris Johnson on dealing with the 'inevitable' second wave Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg has died at age 87 People party in street in Nottingham despite second wave imminent Couple built natural swimming pool in back garden in two years Birmingham freshers enjoy night out in Birmingham city centre Daredevil climber spotted on Paris skyscraper bare hands Lord McColl says don't blame COVID rates on Government Horrifying moment toddlers are crushed by falling cabinet drawers Drinkers in Newcastle partake in messy night out prior to lockdown Paraglider pulls off perfect ground spiral manoeuvre Listen at an alligator inhaling helium in the name of science Pensioner tells of how he got scammed £330,000 of his life savings          Up to 100 people gathering at Elsternwick Park in Brighton dispersed to Elwood when faced with a long line of officers at the site, 11km from Melbourne's CBD. Pictured: Protesters and officers at the Saturday demonstrations Protesters marching along Elwood beach about 1pm were dispersed a third time, and several arrests have been made by officers. Shouting about Premier Daniel Andrews and coronavirus restrictions was heard throughout the disjointed protests. The protests were described as 'chaotic', with one photographer saying there was 'a lot of running and not much protesting.'  Some protesters continued to scatter through backstreets, even jumping fences into private property. One arrested by police was filmed by Nine News telling officers: 'Wake up, I know you already know this is wrong.'          Protests were announced by rally organisers about 10.30am on Saturday - half an hour before kicking off at the State Library, and a second closely following at 12pm. Pictured: Protesters and officers at the Saturday demonstrations In video captured of the event, protesters can be heard yelling 'disgraceful', 'I've done nothing wrong', 'no violence' and 'peaceful' as officers stand nearby. A man can be seen being arrested as he questions: 'Officers, why are you doing this. I've never done anything wrong in my life. Please, this is enough. It's only  going to get worse. Who is going to fight for you.'  Premier Daniel Andrews said the protest was selfish and irresponsible.     Pictured: A man being held down by police at the anti-lockdown protests at Elwood Beach, Melbourne He added it was an unlawful act and told protesters: 'Go home and follow the rules. There is no need to protest about anything. It is not safe'.   'It just doesn't make any sense. You are potentially putting the strategy at risk. No-one should be doing anything to contribute to the spread of this virus, 21 cases today, seriously. This is working. We're getting there,' he said, The Age reported.  Saturday's events follow concern anti-lockdown protesters in Melbourne are threatening to cause another COVID-19 outbreak as the city teeters on the brink of a third explosion and cases surge in the southeast.      Police (pictured) are circling the area, including officers from Public Order Response, the Mounted Unit and Highway Patrol Public health authorities are racing to stop infections growing in the Casey and Dandenong council areas on the Melbourne's southeast rim, which now has 90 active cases. Five households in Clyde, Cranbourne North, Hallam and Narre Warren South are linked to 34 active cases. Daniel Andrews urged covidiots on Saturday not to gather at planned protests across the city or 'do anything to undermine' its progress with tackling COVID-19. It comes as Victoria recorded 21 new cases of COVID-19, the lowest daily increase since June, and a further seven deaths.   Metropolitan Melbourne's 14-day average has plummeted and now sits at 39.3 as the state moves to a COVID normal. In regional Victoria, the 14-day average is at just 1.9.  Later on Saturday, following the protests but not directly related, Melburnians were seen enjoying the sunshine at coffee shops and bars without masks Daniel Andrews (pictured) urged covidiots on Saturday not to gather at planned protests across the city or 'do anything to undermine' its progress with tackling COVID-19 Boris Johnson on dealing with the 'inevitable' second wave Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg has died at age 87 People party in street in Nottingham despite second wave imminent Couple built natural swimming pool in back garden in two years Birmingham freshers enjoy night out in Birmingham city centre Daredevil climber spotted on Paris skyscraper bare hands Lord McColl says don't blame COVID rates on Government Horrifying moment toddlers are crushed by falling cabinet drawers Drinkers in Newcastle partake in messy night out prior to lockdown Paraglider pulls off perfect ground spiral manoeuvre Listen at an alligator inhaling helium in the name of science Fascinating new views of Jupiter taken by the Hubble Space Telescope A heavy Police presence is seen in Dandenong following an anti-lockdown protest on August 28  This is the ninth day in a row Victoria has recorded a daily infections increase below 50.  Metropolitan Melbourne is under strict Stage Four lockdown - limiting Melburnians travelling more than 5km from their homes and enforcing a 9pm to 5am curfew.  The premier did not comment on where Saturday demonstrations would be, with protesters taking caution when sharing information online.   Multiple rallies have taken place in Melbourne the past few weekends.   Victoria Police have responded with a heavy presence - handing out dozens of fines and making arrests.  The premier did not comment on where Saturday demonstrations would be, with protesters taking caution when sharing information online. Pictured: Protesters rallying against lockdown regulations on Monday on September 13 'Let's not lose sight of the fact that this week we have seen, day after day, not the 725 cases we had five and a half weeks ago - we have made very significant progress,' Mr Andrews said. 'We've got regional Victoria opening up. People should be positive and optimistic this strategy is working, and therefore, let's not any of us do anything to undermine that.'   A surge of cases in the Casey and Dandenong area has been linked back to five households in the Afghan community. As residents in the city are still under strict Stage Four lockdown, it is thought the infected group may have breached the stay-at-home orders.  There are currently 101 active coronavirus cases in the Casey and Dandenong area with 34 infections linked to five households  Metropolitan Melbourne is under strict Stage Four lockdown - limiting Melburnians travelling more than 5km from their homes and enforcing a 9pm to 5am curfew. Pictured: A person walking through Melbourne's empty city As residents in the city are still under strict Stage Four lockdown, it is thought the infected group may have breached the stay-at-home orders.  Health authorities are scrambling to track and trace the new surge in cases, and the Victorian government has begun a recruitment drive which sees retired officers re-enlisted to bolster the state's frontline virus efforts.  'Members of those households visiting other households,' Department of Health and Human Services COVID-19 testing commander Jeroen Weimar said. 'It is that limited amount of contact, relatively infrequent contact between these five households that has now meant that we have 34 people in five houses experiencing or living with a very real threat of the coronavirus.' The Victorian government has even began a new recruitment drive that will see retired officers re-enlisted to bolster the state's frontline virus efforts Police conducting checks on motorists at checkpoints - alongside the Australian Defence Force - to ensure Victorians are following state rules The cluster - impacting five households in Hallam, Clyde, Narre Warren South and Cranbourne North - first emerged on September 4.  Cases in the southeast have now spread to Dandenong Police Station and a number of industrial work sites.  Premier Daniel Andrews on Friday said the actions of the family's involved in the cluster was 'disappointing'.  Boris Johnson on dealing with the 'inevitable' second wave Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg has died at age 87 People party in street in Nottingham despite second wave imminent Couple built natural swimming pool in back garden in two years Birmingham freshers enjoy night out in Birmingham city centre Daredevil climber spotted on Paris skyscraper bare hands Lord McColl says don't blame COVID rates on Government Horrifying moment toddlers are crushed by falling cabinet drawers Drinkers in Newcastle partake in messy night out prior to lockdown Paraglider pulls off perfect ground spiral manoeuvre Listen at an alligator inhaling helium in the name of science Fascinating new views of Jupiter taken by the Hubble Space Telescope The cluster which has impacted the five households in Hallam, Clyde, Narre Warren South and Cranbourne North, first emerged on September 4 'Five kilometres is one thing and visiting others is the real issue here,' he said.  'The rules are in place for a reason and anyone who undermines this, undermines the entire strategy and it means the rules will be on for longer.'  The Victorian leader, however, ruled out fines for the group, telling reporters it may discourage others from being completely honest with contact tracers.  'I know many Victorians, when you see examples of people not following the rules, that's disappointing, it makes you angry,' Mr Andrews said. 'You need to look at the bigger picture here. 'We don't want a situation where people don't have a sense of confidence and indeed, you know, the sense they're obliged to tell us the full story as quickly as possible. That's what we need.'  The success of Melbourne's ongoing lockdown could be at risk with a new cluster in the southeast of the city. Pictured: A coronavirus testing centre in Cranbourne on September 17 The Casey and Dandenong cluster is testing the capacity of COVID-detectives. Pictured: Heath workers are seen at a coronavirus testing centre in Cranbourne on September 17 A health worker is pictured approaching a vehicle at a COVID-19 testing centre in Cranbourne on September 17 Despite the new cluster, Victoria's overall case numbers are continuing to decline.  With contact tracers 'painstakingly' working around the clock to slow the spread of the virus and bringing the city out of lockdown, the Victorian government is set to introduce a controversial new policy seeing retired cops re-enlisted in the force. The Department of Justice and Community Safety and the Department of Health and Human Services is behind the push which will see former cops given paid training before being assigned specific COVID-19 roles. These roles include industry enforcement, testing support, door-knocking and the airport patrol.  A man with a dog is seen being questioned by two police officers in the Dandenong area However, not everybody is in favour of the move to bring back veteran police.      'Police veterans have a real contribution to make to the ongoing safety of the community but their use to issue infringements, detain people and conduct checks on private property is entirely inappropriate,' Opposition Police and Community Safety spokesman David Southwick told the Herald Sun.    Ivan Ray, who served in the Victorian Police Force for more than three decades, said it was a recipe for disaster for the veterans.  'It's effectively a health department police force, and we know the Health Department is no good at enforcement, we saw that in the hotel quarantine operation,' Mr Ray said. 'Veterans can play a part and they can support policing, but it has to be by the police department.' Health authorities are urging anyone in the southeast of Melbourne to diligently monitor their health and immediately get tested if feeling unwell.  Health authorities are urging anyone in the southeast of Melbourne to diligently monitor their health and immediately get tested if feeling unwell
Cyprus Covid cases are low - there's no better place for a late break Suddenly, it seems like Cyprus is the only country still standing. Coronavirus doesn't discriminate but, even so, it has largely spared the third largest island in the Mediterranean (after Sicily and Sardinia), with infections low after the Cypriot government restricted travel in and out during April and May. 'We want to ensure visitors enjoy a safe, carefree and much-needed holiday after months of stressful isolation,' Cyprus's Deputy Minister of Tourism Savvas Perdios told the Mail. Cyprus is a fascinating melting pot of cultures, cuisines and religions. Pictured is Petra Tou Romiou in Paphos Cyprus is sunny 300 days a year, with temperatures about 25c well into November. Britons travelling there must provide a Covid-19 'fit-to-fly' certificate prior to entry (and proof of a negative test result).  While that might sound like a palaver, when I boarded my Paphos-bound plane it was reassuring to know all passengers had tested negative within the past 72 hours. Cyprus sits at the crossroads of three continents. It was discovered by the Ancient Greeks and has been fought over by the Egyptians, Romans, Turks and even the British. So it's a fascinating melting pot of cultures, cuisines and religions. It only takes two hours to drive from east to west. You can be on a beach in the morning, explore Roman ruins in the afternoon and escape to a rural village for dinner. Here's our pick of where to go... CULTURAL PAPHOS  The former fishing village of Paphos, pictured, has a wealth of historic relics, which has earned the entire town UNESCO World Heritage status Cyprus has 403 miles of coastline, but the island's western side is as much about culture as its Blue Flag beaches. None more so than the former fishing village of Paphos whose wealth of historic relics has earned the entire town UNESCO World Heritage status. Don't miss the 2nd-century Roman mosaics at Kato Paphos — floor mosaics found in the remains of Roman villas. They depict scenes from Greek mythology (including Narcissus admiring his reflection in water) and are amazingly well preserved. Legend has it that this was the birthplace of Aphrodite.  The Greek goddess of love is said to have emerged from foam between two dramatic sea rocks at Petra Tou Romiou. Go early with a swimsuit and you can even bathe in this beauty spot without the crowds. Paphos has chichi bars and tavernas and at night the Greek colonial style buildings in the main square are illuminated At least one evening should be dedicated to exploring Old Paphos which has seen a recent makeover. Start with a sundowner at Muse — a clifftop bar with the best view in town — then have a wander. There are chichi bars and tavernas in the pedestrianised Hani District and at night the Greek colonial style buildings in the main square (the town hall is a replica of The Parthenon) are illuminated. TRY: Order a special Muse cocktail. The History one (this is Paphos after all) is a blend of cognac, strawberries, mint and raspberry with a ginger ale kick. How to do it Luxury: Seven nights half-board at the Almyra Hotel in October, with Scott Dunn, from £1,600 pp, including flights (scottdunn.com). Mid-range: Seven nights B&B at Constantinou Bros Asimina Hotel in October from £1,169 pp, including flights (asimina-cbh.com). Budget: Seven nights all-inclusive at Louis Sofianna Resort in November, with Tui, from £426pp, including flights (was £664pp, tui.co.uk). HISTORIC LIMASSOL  Limassol's marina, which is full of gleaming yachts and designer shops at one end and a strip of swanky beachside hotels at the other It was at Limassol's medieval castle that King Richard the Lionheart got married and crowned his wife Queen of England. Bang in the centre of southern Cyprus, this lively port has a chic marina full of gleaming yachts and designer shops at one end and a strip of swanky beachside hotels at the other. The Parklane resort is particularly great for families, with Rio Ferdinand football academies for youngsters. On top of the Acropolis of Kourion is what can only be described as an outdoor theatre with the world's best view — an amazingly intact 1st-century Greco-Roman affair which overlooks the Med.  In Limassol you can try Commandaria, a Cypriot dessert wine (it tastes like sherry). Pictured is Kourion beach Channel your inner Peter O'Toole (he filmed Katherine Of Alexandria here) by standing on the middle of the stage and hollering. The acoustics are as good now as they were two thousand years ago. A day trip from here to the Troodos mountains offers a refreshing change of scenery. Be sure to visit Governor's Beach, reached by steps cut out of white limestone cliffs. Its sand is a surprising dark green. TRY: Commandaria is a Cypriot dessert wine (it tastes like sherry) native to the Limassol region. How to do it Luxury: Seven nights B&B at Amara Hotel in October, with Sovereign, from £1,558 pp, including flights (sovereign.com). Mid-range: Seven nights B&B at Parklane in October, with BA Holidays, from £706 pp, including flights (ba.com). Budget: Seven nights B&B at Harmony Bay in October, with EasyJet Holidays, from £386 pp, including flights (easyjet.com). HILLSIDE HIDEAWAYS The old streets of Omodos. Lace, embroidery and trinkets are sold in its bijou shops Jo Kessel in Cyprus. When she boarded her Paphos-bound plane, she said it was reassuring to know all passengers had tested negative for Covid-19 within the past 72 hours Fit To Fly certificates can be obtained from private clinics around the UK. It's best to book in advance as demand is high. Travellers to Cyprus must also fill out an online form (cyprusflightpass.gov.cy) within 24 hours of departure. Cars can be hired from just £25 a day. Cypriots drive on the left. A day ticket costing £7.80 entitles you to visit as many archaeological sites in Cyprus (there are 12) as you can squeeze into 24 hours. Senior citizens are half price, and under-18s go free (with ID). No need for adaptors; Cyprus uses British three-pin plugs. The first Olympic medal won by Cyprus was at the London 2012 Olympics in sailing. Cyprus isn't just about water sports; it's about winter sports, too. Mount Olympus is its highest peak (1,952m/6,404ft) and has several ski slopes. On average Cyprus receives only 40 days of rainfall each year. Venture into the island's quiet, rural interior, where the foothills of the Troodos mountains are carpeted with vineyards. Taste five wines for five euros at the Zambartas winery and you're in for a treat. Head further inland and you'll reach Omodos, the prettiest of old, white stone villages. It's higgledy-piggledy pavements are tricky to negotiate (top tip: don't wear heels) as you eye up the lace, embroidery and trinkets sold in its bijou shops. At the village's heart is the Holy Cross Monastery, home to one of Christianity's most prized (and gory) relics: a piece of the rope which tied Jesus to the crucifix. A short walk away is the Makrinari Tavern. Order a meze and you'll be served moussaka, meatballs, Greek salad, tzatziki, olives, halloumi and more, all for 10 euros a head. Get lucky and the owner will strum his bouzouki in the background. TRY: George's Bakery is famed throughout Cyprus for its special 'Omodos' bread. How to do it Luxury: Seven nights B&B at Oinou Strata in October from £500 pp (oinoustrata.com/en). Ryanair (ryanair.com) London to Paphos from £99 return. Mid-range: Seven nights room-only at Arsorama in October from £357 pp (arsorama.com.cy). Flights as above. Budget: Seven nights at Elysium in October, with Home Away, from £266 pp (homeaway.co.uk). Flights as above. AWESOME AYIA NAPA  The Adams Beach Hotel, pictured, is perfectly situated next to Nissi Beach, which has a water sports centre  About half of all holidaymakers to Cyprus park up in the eastern Famagusta district. The sea's warm; the turquoise water so clear you can see tiny shimmering silver fish swimming all around you and its pearl-white beaches feel more Caribbean than European. Ayia Napa has a reputation for being a party resort, but it's easy to find quiet corners. Nissi Beach is the most popular, with a water sports centre on an island you can walk to. The Adams Beach Hotel is perfectly situated next to Nissi as well as having its own quiet cove and waterslides, though they're not as daredevil as the rides at Ayia Napa's ancient Greek themed WaterWorld. For a complete change of scenery visit the town of Larnaca, 40 minutes away. Highlights include a stroll down its Palm Tree Promenade, St Lazarus Church and a string of salt lakes where flamingos are a common sight from November to Spring. TRY: Earn dinner with a two-mile walk along the coastal path to the harbour full of colourful fishing boats. How to do it Luxury: Seven nights at Villa Seashell (sleeps 12) in October, with James Villas, from £1,790 pp. Wizz Air (wizzair.com) London to Larnaca from £50 return. Mid-range: Seven nights all-inclusive at Panthea Holiday Village in October, with First Choice, from £903 pp, including flights (was £992 pp, firstchoice.co.uk). Budget: Seven nights B&B at Adams Beach Hotel in October, with Jet2 Holidays, from £528 pp, including flights (jet2.com). Information correct at time of going to press. Check government guidance before booking at www.gov.uk/guidance/travel-advice-novel-coronavirus The travel corridor conundrum is becoming ever harder to predict. After Denmark's infections soared past 20 cases per 100,000 people — the UK Government's threshold for imposing quarantine — the Scandinavian country was tipped for removal from the safe list.  But Slovenia and the French Caribbean island of Guadeloupe were ditched instead on Thursday, while Thailand and Singapore were added (though British tourists are currently barred from entering both countries).  Here's what's happening elsewhere... Turkey The country remains a good option for a quarantine-free sunny break. Package holidays are 19 per cent cheaper than this time last year, according to Travel Supermarket, and temperatures reach daily highs of 26c in October. Spain Spain is bracing itself for a second wave after recording 11,000 cases and 239 deaths on Wednesday — its deadliest day since early May during lockdown. Madrid is seeing the biggest surge, with parts of the capital reaching 1,000 cases per 100,000 people (the UK is currently sitting at 35.2). Italy Cases remain high but stable in the amber zone. The country is still on the UK's travel corridor list but could be removed if cases begin to creep up. Greece Mainland Greece remains quarantine-free for tourists travelling from England. Like Italy, cases remain high but under reasonable control. St Lucia Visitors to St Lucia, pictured, must stay in a Covid-certified hotel and are only allowed to leave resorts on organised excursions The Caribbean islands are our best bet for winter sun. St Lucia is on the UK's travel corridor list, has had no Covid deaths and only 26 recorded cases since the beginning of the pandemic. British tourists are welcome but are required to provide a negative test taken no more than seven days before arrival. Visitors must stay in a Covid-certified hotel and are only allowed to leave the resorts on organised excursions, which include visits to rainforests, waterfalls and trail walking tours of the Pitons. BA flies direct and return rates in October and November are as low as £392. Antigua and Barbuda The islands have had three deaths and 95 cases and are on the UK's travel corridor list. Visitors must provide a negative test taken no more than seven days before arrival. Further health screening may be undertaken at the airport on arrival. Depending on the test results, the authorities may instruct visitors to enter government-provided quarantine, for which a£28.50-per-night fee may be charged. Seychelles The cluster of 115 islands in the Indian Ocean has had 140 cases and no deaths. It is on the UK's travel corridor list but only tourists from countries deemed to be a low or medium risk are permitted entry. The UK is not currently on the list of approved countries. By Harriet Sime 
NSW reported three new COVID-19 cases overnight New South Wales has reported three new COVID-19 cases overnight. Two cases are from returned travellers currently staying in hotel quarantine. The other case is a staff member who worked while potentially infectious at Concord Hospital, in Sydney's inner west.  NSW Health said it was investigating how the staff member became infected. 'The case cared for patients with COVID-19 and further investigation is underway to identify how the infection was acquired.  'Contact tracing is underway.' New South Wales has reported three new COVID-19 cases overnight (pictured, two women wear face masks in Circular Quay) The other case is a staff member at Concord Hospital, in Sydney's inner west Four people are currently being treated in intensive care units with two connected to respirators.    NSW had six new COVID-19 cases in the 24 hours to 8pm on Thursday, with just one acquired locally and linked to a known cluster. Five of the cases were returned overseas travellers in hotel quarantine. The locally acquired case is a household contact of another one who attended Liverpool Hospital and was in isolation while infectious. There are now 21 cases linked to the Liverpool Hospital dialysis cluster.  As the state continues to record low numbers of COVID-19 cases, premier Gladys Berejiklian has made plans to welcome an extra 500 weekly returned travellers.   The increase will start from September 27, and takes the state's intake to about 3,000 a week. It followed Ms Berejiklian's declaration she'd be happy to accept the extra travellers if Queensland and Western Australia doubled their intake. Those states will scale up capacity by 500 returnees per week more slowly than NSW. Ms Berejiklian has for months been urging the other states to lift their game and share the load.   NSW had six new COVID-19 cases in the 24 hours to 8pm on Thursday, with just one acquired locally and linked to a known cluster (pictured, nurses at a COVID-19 pop-up clinic at Rushcutters Bay) NSW Health said it was investigating how the staff member at Concord Hospital became infected The state premier continues to be at loggerheads with Queensland counterpart Annastacia Palaszczuk over the NSW and QLD border issue. Queensland announced on Friday ACT residents will be able to fly into the Sunshine State from September 25, but those in NSW cannot as it's still considered a hotspot. Ms Berejiklian said all border talks with Ms Palaszczuk had ceased again, but Queensland Deputy Premier Steven Miles denied any communication breakdown. He said Queensland's chief health officer speaks with her NSW counterpart almost every day and he speaks with his counterpart most days too. It came as NSW agreed to accept an additional 500 returned travellers each week into its hotel quarantine system. 
Melbourne anti-lockown protesters threaten to cause COVID-19 outbreak Anti-lockdown protesters in Melbourne are threatening to cause another COVID-19 outbreak as the city teeters on the brink of a third explosion and cases surge in the southeast.     Public health authorities are racing to stop infections growing in the Casey and Dandenong council areas on the Melbourne's southeast rim, which now has 90 active cases. Five households in Clyde, Cranbourne North, Hallam and Narre Warren South are linked to 34 active cases. Daniel Andrews urged covidiots on Saturday not to gather at planned protests across the city or 'do anything to undermine' its progress with tackling COVID-19. It comes as Victoria recorded 21 new cases of COVID-19, the lowest daily increase since June, and a further seven deaths.   Metropolitan Melbourne's 14-day average has plummeted and now sits at 39.3 as the state moves to a COVID normal. In regional Victoria, the 14-day average is at just 1.9.  Daniel Andrews (pictured) urged covidiots on Saturday not to gather at planned protests across the city or 'do anything to undermine' its progress with tackling COVID-19 A heavy Police presence is seen in Dandenong following an anti-lockdown protest on August 28  This is the ninth day in a row Victoria has recorded a daily infections increase below 50.  Metropolitan Melbourne is under strict Stage Four lockdown - limiting Melburnians travelling more than 5km from their homes and enforcing a 9pm to 5am curfew.  The premier did not comment on where Saturday demonstrations would be, with protesters taking caution when sharing information online.   Multiple rallies have taken place in Melbourne the past few weekends.   Victoria Police have responded with a heavy presence - handing out dozens of fines and making arrests.  'Let's not lose sight of the fact that this week we have seen, day after day, not the 725 cases we had five and a half weeks ago - we have made very significant progress,' Mr Andrews said. 'We've got regional Victoria opening up. People should be positive and optimistic this strategy is working, and therefore, let's not any of us do anything to undermine that.'   The premier on Saturday did not comment on where Saturday demonstrations would be, with protesters taking caution when sharing information online. Pictured: Protesters rallying against lockdown regulations on Monday on September 13 Mr Andrews' comments also followed trying to dissuade protesters on Friday by saying their intended actions would be selfish and irresponsible.  His comments also followed information of a new cluster emerging in the southeast of Melbourne.   A surge of cases in the Casey and Dandenong area has been linked back to five households in the Afghan community. There are currently 101 active coronavirus cases in the Casey and Dandenong area with 34 infections linked to five households  Metropolitan Melbourne is under strict Stage Four lockdown - limiting Melburnians travelling more than 5km from their homes and enforcing a 9pm to 5am curfew. Pictured: A person walking through Melbourne's empty city As residents in the city are still under strict Stage Four lockdown, it is thought the infected group may have breached the stay-at-home orders.  Health authorities are scrambling to track and trace the new surge in cases, and the Victorian government has begun a recruitment drive which sees retired officers re-enlisted to bolster the state's frontline virus efforts.  'Members of those households visiting other households,' Department of Health and Human Services COVID-19 testing commander Jeroen Weimar said. 'It is that limited amount of contact, relatively infrequent contact between these five households that has now meant that we have 34 people in five houses experiencing or living with a very real threat of the coronavirus.' The Victorian government has even began a new recruitment drive that will see retired officers re-enlisted to bolster the state's frontline virus efforts Police conducting checks on motorists at checkpoints - alongside the Australian Defence Force - to ensure Victorians are following state rules The cluster - impacting five households in Hallam, Clyde, Narre Warren South and Cranbourne North - first emerged on September 4.  Cases in the southeast have now spread to Dandenong Police Station and a number of industrial work sites.  Premier Daniel Andrews on Friday said the actions of the family's involved in the cluster was 'disappointing'.  The cluster which has impacted the five households in Hallam, Clyde, Narre Warren South and Cranbourne North, first emerged on September 4 'Five kilometres is one thing and visiting others is the real issue here,' he said.  'The rules are in place for a reason and anyone who undermines this, undermines the entire strategy and it means the rules will be on for longer.'  The Victorian leader, however, ruled out fines for the group, telling reporters it may discourage others from being completely honest with contact tracers.  'I know many Victorians, when you see examples of people not following the rules, that's disappointing, it makes you angry,' Mr Andrews said. 'You need to look at the bigger picture here. 'We don't want a situation where people don't have a sense of confidence and indeed, you know, the sense they're obliged to tell us the full story as quickly as possible. That's what we need.'  The success of Melbourne's ongoing lockdown could be at risk with a new cluster in the southeast of the city. Pictured: A coronavirus testing centre in Cranbourne on September 17 The Casey and Dandenong cluster is testing the capacity of COVID-detectives. Pictured: Heath workers are seen at a coronavirus testing centre in Cranbourne on September 17 A health worker is pictured approaching a vehicle at a COVID-19 testing centre in Cranbourne on September 17 Despite the new cluster, Victoria's overall case numbers are continuing to decline.  With contact tracers 'painstakingly' working around the clock to slow the spread of the virus and bringing the city out of lockdown, the Victorian government is set to introduce a controversial new policy seeing retired cops re-enlisted in the force. The Department of Justice and Community Safety and the Department of Health and Human Services is behind the push which will see former cops given paid training before being assigned specific COVID-19 roles. These roles include industry enforcement, testing support, door-knocking and the airport patrol.  A man with a dog is seen being questioned by two police officers in the Dandenong area However, not everybody is in favour of the move to bring back veteran police.      'Police veterans have a real contribution to make to the ongoing safety of the community but their use to issue infringements, detain people and conduct checks on private property is entirely inappropriate,' Opposition Police and Community Safety spokesman David Southwick told the Herald Sun.    Ivan Ray, who served in the Victorian Police Force for more than three decades, said it was a recipe for disaster for the veterans.  'It's effectively a health department police force, and we know the Health Department is no good at enforcement, we saw that in the hotel quarantine operation,' Mr Ray said. 'Veterans can play a part and they can support policing, but it has to be by the police department.' Health authorities are urging anyone in the southeast of Melbourne to diligently monitor their health and immediately get tested if feeling unwell.  Health authorities are urging anyone in the southeast of Melbourne to diligently monitor their health and immediately get tested if feeling unwell
ALEX BRUMMER: Second national Covid lockdown would crush our recovery The threat of a second national lockdown, just as the UK’s resilient economy shows signs of recovering from the first, is a thoroughly depressing prospect. It illustrates so clearly the dilemma of a government under pressure to save the vulnerable from the scourge of Covid-19, but also wanting to avoid plunging the citizens of Britain back into the worst economic slump they have seen in peacetime. The current rise in infections, hospitalisations and deaths is deeply worrying for all.  And it would be an irresponsible government which ignored the health data, the pressures on the NHS and the safety of its citizens.  That is why the lack of adequate test and trace systems, after months to prepare for the great return to work and full time education, is so frustrating. The threat of a second national lockdown, just as the UK’s resilient economy shows signs of recovering from the first, is a thoroughly depressing prospect. Pictured: Boarded up pubs and shops in Edinburgh in April Similarly, fear of the disease explains why the public has generally been so stoically supportive of the ‘rule of six’ restrictions.  But there also needs to be recognition that with every new restriction placed on the lives of citizens, from curfews to hospitality closures, the economic, health and well-being consequences for the country could be infinitely damaging. Indeed, the improving outlook for jobs and prosperity is built on public confidence and could be crushed in an instant, throwing the UK back into a debilitating slump that could take decades to remedy. The tragedy is that the looming prospect of a second lockdown has been thrust sharply into focus at a moment when it seemed that the British economy, the worst performing among the richest countries in the first six months of the year, was coming back into its own. Certainly the huge amount of assistance that Chancellor Rishi Sunak and the Bank of England have poured into business and the pockets of furloughed workers is starting to pay dividends. Yes, when the nightmare of this pandemic is halted by new medicines and vaccines there will be £2 trillion of national debt that will need to be eventually paid back over the decades.  However, it is not inconceivable that such a goal can be achieved without permanent scarring to the economy and mass unemployment. It seemed that the British economy was coming back into its own. Certainly the huge amount of assistance that Chancellor Rishi Sunak (pictured) and the Bank of England have poured into business and the pockets of furloughed workers is starting to pay dividends When the nightmare of this pandemic is halted by new medicines and vaccines there will be £2 trillion of national debt that will need to be eventually paid back over the decades. Pictured: Cars line up at a testing centre in Abercynon Personally, as someone who months ago predicted the very worst for Britain as a result of the pandemic, I have been pleasantly surprised by our much discussed ‘V’ shaped recovery.  Even the great sceptics at the Paris-based Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), who just a few months ago delighted in highlighting the UK’s dismal slump earlier this year, this week posited that the UK will be the fastest growing economy in the Western world in 2021, expanding at a Chinese-like 7.6 per cent. But there still needs to be a recognition of how fragile the recovery could be and how easily it could be knocked off course should the nation be locked down again, even for a temporary period.  The very prospect of more restrictions on commerce yesterday was enough to send shudders through the stock market values of British Airways owner IAG and the country’s biggest engineer Rolls-Royce, with values pummelled by up to 10 per cent. Meanwhile, among the most encouraging aspects of the recent upturn has been the return of faith in the housing market and signs of a mini-consumer boom.  According to the latest retail figures, sales in August jumped 0.8 per cent – and were 4 per cent higher than pre-virus levels.  Strong sales numbers from big high street names including Next and John Lewis have added to the belief that they can return to some sort of normal.  Nevertheless, among top retailers there is an underlying fear that if shops were to be closed again or retail parks emptied out, it could be disastrous in the run-up to Christmas when John Lewis, among others, takes as much of two-thirds of its annual income through the tills. There still needs to be a recognition of how fragile the recovery could be and how easily it could be knocked off course should the nation be locked down again, even for a temporary period. Pictured: Windows of a pub in Dublin's Temple Bar are boarded up, as further restrictions in Dublin were imposed on Friday At its regular interest rate setting this week, the Bank of England was much more cheerful, noting that GDP in July was 18.5 per cent above its trough in April, though still 11.25 per cent below 2019 levels.  On the employment front, it noted that online vacancies have started to rise and that in August the flow of new redundancies was less severe. It cautioned, however, that the outlook was still ‘unusually uncertain’.  The continued progress for GDP, jobs and prosperity would be closely connected to the development of the pandemic and the measures taken to protect public – a veiled warning of how catastrophic a further lockdown could be. Already damage has been done to swathes of the British economy, not least in the hospitality, aviation, aerospace and creative industries.  But there is no reason to believe that, with the right policies, these parts of our economy cannot be revived. And so much as I believe in the sanctity of life and the health of the British people, one cannot escape the fear that a renewed lockdown would destroy the progress Britain has already made, and be an unnecessary hardship for years to come.
Matt Hancock 1.4million care workers corona lapel badges undelivered More than 1.4million care workers promised special badges in April to honour their efforts in protecting the old and vulnerable from coronavirus have still not received them.  Five months after Health Secretary Matt Hancock made the pledge amid great fanfare, the lapel pins are gathering dust waiting to be delivered, triggering new claims of Government incompetence.  Mr Hancock said the green Care badges would ensure that people working in homes for the elderly got ‘the same recognition and benefits’, including dedicated shopping hours in supermarkets, as NHS workers.  Delay: It's been five months since Health Secretary Matt Hancock (pictured) promised special badges for more than 1.4million care workers to honour their efforts But a Freedom of Information request has revealed that since April, only 90,000 of them have been dispatched. More than 1.4million are sitting in boxes waiting to be delivered. Professor Martin Green, chief executive of Care England – one of the organisations which originally launched the badge in 2019 before the pandemic – said he was ‘disappointed’ by the revelation.  ‘We gave the Care badge scheme to the Department of Health and Social Care on the understanding that it would become a unifying image for care,’ he said.  Professor Green said it had been ‘really heartening’ to see Mr Hancock proudly wearing the badge.  But he added: ‘We are disappointed that the dissemination has not been accelerated.’  Mr Hancock announced on April 15 that his department was taking control of the Care badge programme.  The badges are supposed to be a show of support for care staff who've worked tirelessly to protect the old and vulnerable from coronavirus ‘It will be a badge of honour in a very real sense, allowing social care staff proudly and publicly to identify themselves, just like NHS staff do with the famous blue and white logo,’ he said.  He dismissed criticism from those who said care workers who had risked their lives deserved more than a ‘patronising pat on the back’.  The response to the Freedom of Information request shows the Government paid £390,000 to the Care Badge Community Interest Company for 1.5million badges.  More than 1.4millione lapel pins are believed to be re sitting in boxes gathering dust waiting to be delivered   But by September 11 only 90,000 had been sent out.  Labour MP Barbara Keeley a member of the Commons health and social care committee, said: ‘It is concerning that the Government still hasn’t got a grip on the production and distribution of Care badges.  'They were supposed to be a show of support for care staff, but they now risk becoming another sign of how little the Government values social care.  Labour MP Barbara Keeley (pictured) a member of the Commons health and social care committee blasted the Government for failing to get a grip on the production and distribution of the badges ‘These badges are not just symbolic. At the start of this crisis, we heard of care staff being denied priority access to supermarkets and criticised for wearing their uniforms in public.  The Care badges are a crucial way to prevent this.’ The badge shambles comes after a series of rows over claims that the Government has repeatedly failed to deliver on promises to boost Covid-19 testing.  A spokesman for the Department of Health and Social Care said: ‘We want to ensure all 1.5million care workers are able to wear the Care badge with pride and will be making more available in the coming weeks.’
Up to 50% of people may have immune cells that could fight coronavirus As much as half of the world's population may have some immunty to coronavirus, a small but growing body of research suggests.  Tests done on donated blood in the US found that about 50 percent of the samples had immune T cells that reacted to coronavirus, suggesting that the donors' bodies might have the natural ability to fight of the deadly virus.  Similar results have been found in the UK and Sweden.  COVID-19 is thought to be so deadly in part because it's an entirely new virus to  which humans have no natural immunity.  And while that is clearly the case for many people, British Medical Journal associate editor Dr Peter Dosh wrote on Thursday that the evidence is beginning to suggest that some people may possess some protection against the virus.  Some people may have immune T cells to other coronaviruses that could fight SARS-CoV-2, recent research suggests  In March, a member of a Skagit  County, Washington choir went to their usual practice, feeling a bit ill, but unaware that they had coronavirus.  Within a week, that person and another had tested positive for the virus that causes  COVID-19. Another 25 members of the 122-person choir had symptoms of coronavirus.  In the weeks that followed, 52 of the other 60 people who attended the practice would develop COVID-19.  The choir practice was dubbed a superspreader event, and became an early indicator that certain activities - like singing - might facilitate transmission of coronavirus.  Scientists saw the practice as a unique opportunity to study how infectious coronavirus can be.   But less talked-about were the eight attendees who did not get sick, or why. Research has shown that people are more likely to catch coronavirus and become severely ill from it if they are exposed repeatedly, but this group shared a clear common exposure.  One unexplored explanation might be that some  people have pre-existing immunity to coronavirus.   Most research on coronavirus immunity has focused on antibodies, immune cells that develop after the body has been exposed to a new pathogen. They're tailor-made to fight that particular virus or bacteria.  In hard-hit cities, like New York, the  proportion of people who have antibodies that might protect them from re-infection is still fairly low. In New York City, about 23 percent of people tested for antibodies have them.  Now, scientists are starting to look more carefully at T cells, which, like antibodies, are part of the adaptive immune system and learn to identify and combat specific pathogens.   In addition to the US study, two of 10 people's blood had T cells that reacted to SARS-CoV-2 in the Netherlands, as did about a third of samples tested in Germany and most of those tested in Singapore.  They're all small studies but point in the same direction.   Although SARS-CoV-2 itself is new, it belongs a family of many related coronaviruses.  Scientists think that some people may have developed T cells for other coronaviruses that are 'cross-reactive' with SARS-CoV-2 because they are sufficiently similar.  If that's the case, the world may be closer to herd immunity to the deadly infection than we think - but much research remains to be done before we can know if that is the  case.  
Boris Johnson is to blame for care home deaths, says Angela Rayner Angela Rayner last night accused Boris Johnson of 'abandoning' care homes to their fate as she blamed his 'failure and incompetence' for the thousands who had died.  In a stinging attack on the PM, Labour's deputy leader - who was a care worker herself before she entered politics - lambasted him for reneging on his promise to sort out the social care crisis.  Speaking on the weekend before Labour's virtual conference, she accused the PM of demeaning his office by seeking to blame care home staff for the spread of coronavirus.  Angela Rayner, pictured, last night accused Boris Johnson of 'abandoning' care homes to their fate as she blamed his 'failure and incompetence' for the thousands who had died The Prime Minister, pictured, was lambasted for reneging on his promise to sort out the social care crisis And she said it was a 'moral outrage' that a half of home helps and carers earned less than a living wage and often could not even access sick pay.  'It is a disgrace that Boris Johnson demeaned the office of Prime Minister by attempting to blame care workers for the spread of coronavirus in our care homes,' she said.  'It is his failure and incompetence that has resulted in 15,000 deaths in our care homes due to coronavirus. He should concentrate on fixing the crisis in social care that has become even more urgent because of this pandemic.'  Last July, Mr Johnson promised on the steps of Number 10 that he had a plan to fix the social care crisis 'once and for all'.  This plan has never appeared and the Mail revealed last week that it had been delayed yet again. It is now not expected until 2021.  Mrs Rayner, who worked as a home help herself and represented care workers as a union official before becoming an MP, said it was 'unconscionable' that the average wage for a care worker is just £8.10 an hour, while half don't even earn the real living wage.  She attacked the government for 'empty gestures' such as clapping for carers that 'don't pay the rent or put the food on the table', as she demanded the real living wage of £9.30 an hour, rising to £10.75 in London.  'On his first day in office the Prime Minister promised to fix the crisis in social care with a plan he said he had already prepared, she said. 'Now it turns out that it won't be published until next year.  'He must publish his plan to fix the crisis in social care without any more delays, and that plan must guarantee all care workers are paid at least the real living wage.'  Under England's broken care system, people have to pay the full cost of their care down to their last £23,250 - denying their children much of their inheritance and in many cases preventing them from passing on the family home Attacking the Prime Minister for only offering care workers 'warm words, the deputy leader said: 'It was a moral outrage before this pandemic that the average wage for a care worker is a little over £8 an hour and half don't even earn the real living wage, but now it is unconscionable.  'The Prime Minister and government Ministers have fallen over themselves to clap for our carers and offer them warm words, but applause and empty gestures don't pay the rent or put the food on the table.  'We can't clap our key workers and then abandon them. We can't go back to business as usual, where the very same people who have helped to get our country through this crisis are still underpaid and undervalued.  'After all their sacrifice and bravery, the very least that our care workers deserve is a pay rise.'  Mrs Rayner said it was dreadful that many carers do not have the right to statutory sick pay of £94.25 a week.  'They are left in an appalling position, forced to choose between going to work and putting vulnerable people at risk or doing the right thing, isolating at home and not being able to pay the bills,' she said.  The Mail has highlighted the Prime Minister's repeated failure to launch his promised plan for social care.  Under England's broken care system, people have to pay the full cost of their care down to their last £23,250 - denying their children much of their inheritance and in many cases preventing them from passing on the family home.  On the steps of Number 10 last July, Mr Johnson said: 'I am announcing now - on the steps of Downing Street - that we will fix the crisis in social care once and for all with a clear plan we have prepared to give every older person the dignity and security they deserve.'  But earlier this week health minister Lord Bethell said: 'I cannot commit to a social care plan before the end of the year… I suspect it will take longer than the next few months.' 
Delays in cases coming to court are 'corrosive' Delays in cases coming to court are 'corrosive' as they force victims to wait for justice, the director of public prosecutions has warned. Max Hill said more remote hearings should take place to tackle the growing backlog of criminal cases but added that this was only 'part of the answer' to the problem. Courts in England and Wales are grappling with a waiting list of around half a million cases. Delays were exacerbated by the coronavirus pandemic when courts were forced to shut during lockdown. Speaking to an online audience on Friday, Mr Hill said: 'We've got to get over the backlog as quickly as we can.' Max Hil (pictured)l said more remote hearings should take place to tackle the growing backlog of criminal cases but added that this was only 'part of the answer' to the problem It comes amid reports courts are currently listing trials for 2023. During the discussion with BBC journalist Razia Iqbal for the Bingham Centre for the Rule of Law, Mr Hill said: 'What comes with any backlog is the necessity for the participants in cases to wait, and that can be very corrosive, particularly when you've got a vulnerable victim of an appalling crime who is made to wait because they can tell their truth in court. 'We should all be working together to try and reduce that to a minimum.' There were 101,000 live Crown Prosecution Service cases in February. But by the start of this month the figure had jumped by 75% to almost 180,000, Mr Hill said. 'That's inevitable when the courts, try as they might, were simply unable to operate as normal when we were all locked down. 'That's a lot to deal with. 'That's not something you can get rid of in weeks, it is something that is going to continue in the system for a considerable period of time.' The Government has set up 10 Nightingale courts to help keep the system moving. However, just three deal with criminal cases while the others are being used for civil and family hearings. Mr Hill instead hailed the 30,000 hearings conducted remotely since the lockdown, adding: 'That I believe is part of the answer and that should be part of the answer long term. 'We've now seen the technology and I think we need to grasp that and bed that into the system. 'The new normal should include looking at every occasion where we can properly and in the interests of justice, and that includes open justice, conduct hearings across a screen. 'That will drive down on backlog. 'It's not a sole solution but it will help to drive it down.'
Victoria records 21 new coronavirus cases and seven deaths Victoria has recorded 21 new cases of COVID-19 in the lowest daily increase since June, and a further seven deaths.   Metropolitan Melbourne's 14-day average has plummeted and now sits at 39.3 as the state moves to a COVID normal. In regional Victoria, the 14-day average is at just 1.9. This is the ninth day in a row Victoria has recorded a daily infections increase below 50.  Victoria recorded 21 new cases of COVID-19 and seven deaths on Saturday. Pictured: A resident walks along South Wharf in Melbourne as part of their permitted exercise on Wednesday Angry Melburnians are set to take to the streets in protest of the city's strict Stage Four lockdown restrictions  The daily update comes as disgruntled Melburnians revealed they are planning to take to the streets again in protest of the city's Stage Four lockdown restrictions.   Over the last two weekends protesters have clashed with police at the Shrine Of Remembrance, The Tan track and Queen Victoria Market. Police arrested 74 people and issued at least 176 infringement notices during last Sunday's protest at the market.  It will be the third weekend protesters have gathered at inner-city landmarks to rally against the state government's Stage Four restrictions in Melbourne.  Deputy Commissioner Rick Nugent told 3AW's Neil Mitchell police received a warning email from a protester.  'The organiser of the protest sent an email to us … advising us that if we refuse to allow them we will be jeopardising the safety of others and Victoria Police would be putting all Victorians at risk,' he said. 'Unfortunately, we're just going to have to continue to drag police off other functions and other roles to police these people in the city.'   Protesters have warned there will be further anti-lockdown rallies in Melbourne this weekend. Pictured: Police scuffle with protesters during an anti-lockdown protest in Melbourne on Sunday September 13 Over the last two weekends protesters have clashed with police at the Shrine Of Remembrance, The Tan track and Queen Victoria Market. Police arrested 74 people and issued at least 176 infringement notices during last Sunday's protest at the market. Pictured: Police move protesters on through the Queen Victoria Market There are also fears the success of Melbourne's decrease in cases could be at risk with a new cluster emerging in the southeast of the city, testing the capacity of COVID-detectives. There are currently 101 active coronavirus cases in the Casey and Dandenong area with 34 infections linked to five households in the Afghan community. As residents in the city are still under strict Stage Four lockdown which restricts families travelling more than 5km from their homes to visit other households, it's thought the infected group may have breached the stay-at-home orders. Health authorities are now scrambling to track and trace the new surge in cases and the Victorian government has even began a new recruitment drive that will see retired officers re-enlisted to bolster the state's frontline virus efforts.  There are currently 101 active coronavirus cases in the Casey and Dandenong area with 34 infections linked to five households  The Victorian government has even began a new recruitment drive that will see retired officers re-enlisted to bolster the state's frontline virus efforts 'Members of those households visiting other households,' Department of Health and Human Services COVID-19 testing commander Jeroen Weimar said. 'It is that limited amount of contact, relatively infrequent contact between these five households that has now meant that we have 34 people in five houses experiencing or living with a very real threat of the coronavirus.'  The cluster, which has impacted the five households in Hallam, Clyde, Narre Warren South and Cranbourne North, first emerged on September 4.  Cases in the southeast have now spread to Dandenong Police Station and a number of industrial work sites. Premier Daniel Andrews on Friday said the actions of the family's involved in the cluster is 'disappointing'.  The cluster which has impacted the five households in Hallam, Clyde, Narre Warren South and Cranbourne North, first emerged on September 4 'Five kilometres is one thing and visiting others is the real issue here.' he said.  'The rules are in place for a reason and anyone who undermines this, undermines the entire strategy and it means the rules will be on for longer.'  But the Victorian leader ruled out fines for the group, telling reporters it may discourage others from being completely honest with contact tracers.  'I know many Victorians, when you see examples of people not following the rules, that's disappointing, it makes you angry,' Mr Andrews said. 'You need to look at the bigger picture here. 'We don't want a situation where people don't have a sense of confidence and indeed, you know, the sense they're obliged to tell us the full story as quickly as possible. That's what we need.'  Stage Three lockdown in regional Victoria was eased from 11.59pm on Wednesday. Pictured: Diners are seen at Central Nutrition on Thursday in Geelong Residents in regional Victoria are now enjoying eased coronavirus restrictions after they moved away from Stage Three lockdown at 11.59pm on Wednesday.  Pubs, cafes and restaurants are able to serve people outside with strict density quotas, while outdoor gathering limits will be upped to 10. Regional Victorians are also able to leave their homes without restriction and all shops can reopen. They will still be able to travel via Melbourne to reach other parts of the state, but can only stop for three reasons including food, care and permitted work and study. Caravan parks and camping grounds in regional areas were also allowed to reopen from Thursday, but with group booking restrictions. Melbourne residents who leave the city without a lawful excuse will be fined $4,957. The new offence is designed to deter Melburnians from entering regional Victoria. It will be bolstered by beefed-up roadblocks, creating lengthy traffic delays as vehicles pass through. Melbourne's new case average must stay between 30 to 50 for some of the city's restrictions to be eased as planned on September 28. 
Covid gridlock 'puts 999 patients in peril' Road closures brought in during the pandemic are causing gridlock and leading to life-threatening delays for the emergency services, campaigners claim. Councils are using emergency coronavirus cash to rush through the ‘green’ measures, an audit of local road schemes suggests. Under the projects brought in to aid social distancing and encourage walking and cycling, portions of road are being turned over to pedestrians and bikes – and in some cases, closed off altogether. Blocked by bollards: Ambulance in Ealing, west London. Road closures brought in during the pandemic are causing gridlock and leading to life-threatening delays for the emergency services, campaigners claim The Mail carried out a snapshot survey of 30 local authorities and found all have introduced schemes that have an impact on traffic in the past four months. Analysis of data from satnav makers TomTom also reveals rush-hour congestion was worse than normal in 19 of 25 towns and cities on Thursday morning.  The rash of new restrictions has also led to life-threatening delays in reaching heart attack and stroke patients, according to the College of Paramedics. In May, councils were handed £250million for ‘green’ schemes to promote social distancing and to encourage walking and cycling in the wake of lockdown. Supporters say the measures have cut air pollution, led to a rise in physical activity and attracted strong local support. But campaigners claim draconian measures are being rushed through, bringing chaos to the roads at a time when many are shunning public transport in favour of their cars over Covid fears. Department for Transport figures show traffic volumes were at 97 per cent of normal levels on Monday, September 13, compared with 36 per cent for trains. Chaos: Traffic chokes a road in King’s Cross, London, as bollards mark a new cycle lane In a letter seen by the Mail, the AA has warned Transport Secretary Grant Shapps the combination of high traffic levels and anti-car schemes has made congestion and pollution worse in some areas. The motoring organisation’s president Edmund King has asked the minister to rethink the schemes so local people and emergency services are properly consulted. In his letter, he wrote: ‘Some schemes are regrettably adding to congestion and poorer air quality rather than improving them. ‘As you know, governments at all levels succeed best when they engage residents and include them in both the thought and decision-making process. ‘Unfortunately, the lack of consultation is leading to growing levels of dissatisfaction and frustration across many road users, including some emergency services.’ Richard Webber, of the College of Paramedics, said certain schemes had caused ambulance delays. He told the Mail: ‘Some streets are now almost impossible to get through. This really matters with heart attack and stroke patients. For every minute you delay treatment for a cardiac arrest, there is a 10 per cent drop in survivability. Crews have been given keys to bollards. But the process of unlocking them is time-consuming. Bristol: Council has pedestrianised parts of city and suspended parking. Bristol Bridge has been closed to private vehicles. Bath: Motorists are banned from using key city roads from 10am to 6pm. West London: Several roads have been closed in Ealing to give people more room to socially distance. Bolton: Seven roads shut in the city centre to aid social distancing. Colchester: High street closed to cars.  Ludlow, Shropshire: High street closed to traffic between 10am and 3pm. Wigan: Pedestrian zone times extended so they run from 9am to 5pm.   ‘As for cycle lanes, some have been extended and separated from the road by hard bollards. This means that ambulances are forced to sit in traffic.’ The London Ambulance Service said the changes all had the potential to delay their response – although they admitted that, even though the schemes had caused problems, they have still managed to hit all response time targets. Howard Cox, of pressure group FairFuelUK, said: ‘Clueless local authorities, conspiring with and funded by central government, are aimlessly clogging up the heart of our cities, and screwing the world’s already highest taxed drivers with yet more “pay to pollute” congestion and ultra-low emission taxes.’ A Department for Transport spokesman said: ‘We expect local authorities to engage constructively with residents to make sure any changes they make are the right ones for everyone and must accommodate emergency services. ‘Evidence shows these schemes are significantly cutting rat-running traffic, improving air quality and reducing noise pollution, and increasing walking and cycling. Where they do this, they have attracted strong public support.’ The Mail’s survey of local authorities uncovered the introduction of schemes from the widening of pavements and cycle lanes to full closures of town centres to cars.
Covid-19 cases in people in their 20s have DROPPED in England Covid-19 cases among people in their 20s have started to fall for the first time in 10 weeks, Public Health England data shows. Those in the 20-29 age group still have the highest infection rate of anyone in the country but the number of cases per 100,000 people dropped in the second week of September. It fell from 55.9 per 100,000 to 51.8 between September 6 and September 13, according to PHE's most recent surveillance report. The only other age group that saw a drop in its case rate was the over-80s, among whom it dropped from 20.6 to 19.8. In all other age groups infections kept rising. Government officials have pointed the finger at young people in recent weeks for driving infections back up by spreading coronavirus at social events, gathering in larger-than-allowed groups and hosting parties in ignorance of social distancing. PHE's report also showed that outbreaks of coughs and chest infections - some of which will be Covid-19 - are skyrocketing in schools, offices and care homes. 'Acute respiratory infections' rose five-fold in care homes in the week to September 13 and increase more than eight times in schools after term resumed in England.  Data shows that coronavirus infections in people in their 20s fell for the first time in 10 weeks recently (Pictured: Young people out in Birmingham yesterday, Thursday September 17) Coronavirus infections among young people are not a huge cause for concern themselves, scientists say, because they are not likely to lead to serious illness. The disease is generally worst for people over the age of 50, and those with serious health problems such as diabetes, while most of the deaths have been in the elderly. But the biggest worry about young people catching the virus and spreading it is that they keep it circulating and inevitably pass it on to their parents and grandparents. Prime Minister Boris Johnson even held the first Downing Street conference in weeks to tell under-30s to consider their behaviour 'for the sake of your parents' and your grandparents' health'.  Data tentatively suggests the message may have got through, although it was only a small fall and does not yet represent a downward trend.  Cases are still rising in teenagers and younger children, which is likely accelerated by the fact that they have returned to school. Professor Chris Whitty, England's chief medical officer, said at a Downing Street briefing this month that while cases among older people and children remained 'flat', in other age groups there were 'rapid upticks'. He said among 17 to 18 year-olds and 19 to 21 year-olds the numbers had gone up 'really quite steeply' since mid August. PHE data shows that the infection rate is at 10.2 per 100,000 for under-fives; 16 for five to nine-year-olds; and 29.8 for 10 to 19-year-olds. In adults, in the week up to September 13, it was 37.5 for people aged 30 to 39; 30.7 for people in their 40s; 26.6 for those in their 50s; 16.7 for 60 to 69-year-olds; 11.1 for 70 to 79-year-olds and 19.8 for the over-80s. Public Health England also records outbreaks of 'acute respiratory infections' in its coronavirus report. These are a measure of how often different settings are recording outbreaks of more than two people coming down with a cough or chest infection.  They are not all explicitly caused by coronavirus but judged by similar symptoms and included in the Covid-19 report.  The number of these outbreaks has skyrocketed in recent weeks, with a total of 729 across all settings in the week ending September 13, up from just 246 the week before. In schools - which have resumed classes after a lengthy lockdown and summer - the number of coughing outbreaks shot up from 23 to 193 in a week. In workplaces it rose from 65 to 110, and in care homes it spiked from 69 to 313 in the same time period. The increase in outbreaks come as statistics across the board show that Covid-19 infections are rebounding. Another 4,322 people have been diagnosed with Covid-19 today in the highest one-day rise since May 8, as a raft of worrying statistics revealed the Covid-19 crisis appears to be rebounding.  Data from the Office for National Statistics estimates 6,000 people are catching the life-threatening illness every day in England while hospital admissions have doubled in a week and government scientists warn the R rate could now be as high as 1.4. Professor Kevin McConway, a statistician at The Open University, said: 'This is undoubtedly concerning, and particularly so when we take into account that the data behind these estimates come from several sources, many of which - such as hospital admissions, admissions to intensive care, and deaths - lag behind the growth in new infections, because it takes time for people to become ill enough to require hospital treatment or, sadly, to die.  'So the estimates cannot take into account very recent changes in the patterns of new infections.'    September's normal increase in coughs and colds caused by schools going back is causing 'utter chaos' in the UK because people are terrified of Covid-19, according to a top scientist. Professor Carl Heneghan, an evidence-based medicine expert at the University of Oxford, today vented his frustration about the 'panic' being stirred up over the coronavirus crisis.  Meeting with MPs on Parliament's Science and Technology Committee, he insisted coughs and colds spike every September when children head back to class, and become even more common during the winter. But Government messaging about the deadly consequences of Covid-19 and forcing entire towns and regions into lockdown – rules that now cover 9.2million people – have left members of the public 'fearful' and 'terrorised'. He said there has been a 50 per cent increase in reports from family doctors seeing patients with chest infections that have the same symptoms as the coronavirus. Professor Carl Heneghan today appeared in front of MPs on the Science and Technology Committee and said the Government's approach to tackling coronavirus and its messaging about the virus has left people 'terrified' The numbers of people going to doctors with chest infections can be seen starting to rise sharply in September, and the annual average (dotted line) shows that it spikes every year, even before coronavirus The same is true of lower respiratory infections, which also cause coughs and breathing difficulties 'Keeping our children in school is important but at the moment it is utter chaos because of the 50 per cent increase in other respiratory pathogens that mimic Covid in children,' Professor Heneghan said. He refers to illnesses that produce similar symptoms to Covid-19, which are usually viral infections referred to as respiratory tract infections, or chest infections. Cases of these spike every winter because people spend more time indoors close together, and coughs and sneezes spread them easily.  And they are rising now, Professor Heneghan pointed out, because children are returning to school and mixing more with others every day. This would happen regardless of the Covid-19 outbreak. 
Bruce admits coronavirus concern ahead of Newcastle's Carabao Cup tie Steve Bruce says it is a concern that Football League clubs are no longer being tested for Covid-19 on a weekly basis with Newcastle set to travel to Morecambe on Wednesday. Sportsmail revealed this week that the EFL has removed the mandatory protocol for weekly tests. That has led to several top-flights clubs paying for their lower-league opponents to be screened ahead of Carabao Cup fixtures. Newcastle are set to travel to League Two side Morecambe for cup tie on Wednesday And Bruce said: ‘Of course it is a concern. When it comes down to our own individual bubble, I think we are the fortunate ones. We're tested twice a week, but further down the pyramid, it's not the case - and we travel to Morecambe next week with that possibility. ‘There are tough weeks ahead for everybody concerned, so we will have to make sure we observe the rules and try to get back on track again. ‘The football, if that gives people a bit of relief then all well and good. Yes, it is a concern when you play the lower league, but we'd rather be playing football than not.’ Bruce says Newcastle are yet to discuss paying for League Two Morecambe to be tested but, as we reported on Friday, the likes of Liverpool and West Ham will carry the cost of their EFL opponents being screened in the coming days.  Liverpool will be among clubs to offer to pay for their EFL Cup opponent's Covid-19 tests
New COVID-19 cluster is threatening Melbourne's path out of lockdown The success of Melbourne's ongoing lockdown could be at risk with a new cluster emerging in the southeast of the city, testing the capacity of COVID-detectives. There are currently 101 active coronavirus cases in the Casey and Dandenong area with 34 infections linked to five households in the Afghan community. As residents in the city are still under strict Stage Four lockdown which restricts families travelling more than 5km from their homes to visit other households, it's thought the infected group may have breached the stay-at-home orders. Health authorities are now scrambling to track and trace the new surge in cases and the Victorian government has even began a new recruitment drive that will see retired officers re-enlisted to bolster the state's frontline virus efforts.  There are currently 101 active coronavirus cases in the Casey and Dandenong area with 34 infections linked to five households  The Victorian government has even began a new recruitment drive that will see retired officers re-enlisted to bolster the state's frontline virus efforts 'Members of those households visiting other households,' Department of Health and Human Services COVID-19 testing commander Jeroen Weimar said. 'It is that limited amount of contact, relatively infrequent contact between these five households that has now meant that we have 34 people in five houses experiencing or living with a very real threat of the coronavirus.' The cluster, which has impacted the five households in Hallam, Clyde, Narre Warren South and Cranbourne North, first emerged on September 4.  Cases in the southeast have now spread to Dandenong Police Station and a number of industrial work sites. Premier Daniel Andrews on Friday said the actions of the family's involved in the cluster is 'disappointing'.  The cluster which has impacted the five households in Hallam, Clyde, Narre Warren South and Cranbourne North, first emerged on September 4 'Five kilometres is one thing and visiting others is the real issue here.' he said.  'The rules are in place for a reason and anyone who undermines this, undermines the entire strategy and it means the rules will be on for longer.'  But the Victorian leader ruled out fines for the group, telling reporters it may discourage others from being completely honest with contact tracers.  'I know many Victorians, when you see examples of people not following the rules, that's disappointing, it makes you angry,' Mr Andrews said. 'You need to look at the bigger picture here. 'We don't want a situation where people don't have a sense of confidence and indeed, you know, the sense they're obliged to tell us the full story as quickly as possible. That's what we need.'  The success of Melbourne's ongoing lockdown could be at risk with a new cluster in the southeast of the city. Pictured: A coronavirus testing centre in Cranbourne on September 17 The Casey and Dandenong cluster is testing the capacity of COVID-detectives. Pictured: Heathworkers are seen at a coronavirus testing centre in Cranbourne on September 17 A health worker is pictured approaching a vehicle at a COVID-19 testing centre in Cranbourne on September 17 Despite the new cluster, Victoria's overall case numbers are continuing to decline. There were 45 new cases on Friday bringing the total number of infections above 20,000. However the number of active cases has fallen to 920. Sadly, another five deaths today takes Victoria's death toll to 750.  With contact tracers 'painstakingly' working around the clock to slow the spread of the virus and bringing the city out of lockdown, the Victorian government is set to introduce a controversial new policy that will see retired cops re-enlisted in the force. The Department of Justice and Community Safety and the Department of Health and Human Services is behind the push that will see former cops given paid training before being assigned specific COVID-19 roles including, industry enforcement, testing support, door-knocking and the airport patrol.  A heavy Police presence is seen in Dandenong following an anti-lockdown protest on August 28  A man with a dog is seen being questioned by two police officers in the Dandenong area But not everyone is in favour of the move to bring back veteran police.      'Police veterans have a real contribution to make to the ongoing safety of the community but their use to issue infringements, detain people and conduct checks on private property is entirely inappropriate,' Opposition Police & Community Safety spokesman David Southwick told the Herald Sun.    Ivan Ray, who served in the Victorian Police Force for over three decades said it's a recipe for disaster for the veterans.  'It's effectively a health department police force, and we know the Health Department is no good at enforcement, we saw that in the hotel quarantine operation,' Mr Ray said. 'Veterans can play a part and they can support policing, but it has to be by the police department,' he said.  Health authorities are urging anyone in the southeast of Melbourne to diligently monitor their health and immediately get tested if feeling unwell.  Health authorities are urging anyone in the southeast of Melbourne to diligently monitor their health and immediately get tested if feeling unwell
Alarming video reveals coronavirus-laden particles created by singing Researchers in Australia believe singing, especially in a choir, could spread coronavirus via airborne droplets.  The findings come from a slow-motion video with special LED lighting which shows how otherwise invisible particles shoot from the mouth of a singer.  During an experiment, a person was asked to sing a popular scale and some sounds, such as ‘do’, ‘fa’ and ‘ti’, forced particles out at up to six metres a second (13 mph).  More than half of droplets produced by coughing travel at this speed, or faster, while only 15 per cent of particles created by talking travel at this pace.    Researchers suggest that extra precautions should be taken to mitigate against the extra dangers posed by group singing.  This includes rehearsals with fewer people, wearing face coverings while singing and extreme social distancing. During an experiment, a person was asked to sing a popular scale and some sounds, such as ‘do’, ‘fa’ and ‘ti’, forced particles out at up to six metres a second (13 mph)  A recent piece of research found the amount of particles produced is the same, but did not account for speed.  This finding led researchers to believe singing was just as risky as talking, but the new research indicates singing poses extra risks.  For example, the quantity of particles produced when singing could saturate the air inside a room, making social distancing pointless.  A study from the university of New South Wales, Sydney, found the majority of particles produced during singing travel at less than 0.5 m/s. However, they are spewed in all directions and are likely to not settle and drift on air currents.  In a room with air conditioning or a fan this would see the infectious particles stay airborne for long periods of time, travelling vast distances.   For the study, the singer remained at a relatively subdued sound range of between 66 and 72 decibels. Singing in a choir has been heavily linked to previous superspreader events. Outbreaks at choirs in Berlin, Amsterdam and Washington were so severe that 75.6 per cent, 78.5 per cent and 86.9 per cent of people in attendance tested positive for COVID-19, respectively (stock) Researchers in Australia believe singing, especially in a choir, could spread coronavirus via airborne droplets. The findings come from a slow-motion video with LED lighting which shows how invisible particles shoot from the mouth of a singer (pictured, diagram of the set-up) 'It is also worth noting that some degree of variability is expected in the number of droplets expelled between different individuals, and due to other parameters, such as loudness, notes, consonants, and duration of each note sung,' the researchers say in the study, published today in Journal of Infectious Diseases.  Singing in a choir has been heavily linked to previous superspreader events.  Outbreaks at choirs in Berlin, Amsterdam and Washington were so severe that 75.6 per cent, 78.5 per cent and 86.9 per cent of people in attendance tested positive for COVID-19, respectively.   'The data presented combined with high infection rate among the choir members points towards the possibility of airborne spread of COVID-19 during singing events,' the researchers write.   The study is the latest in a string of scientific papers investigating the danger singing poses in regard to the transmission of Covid-19. Researchers at Lund University, Sweden studied the amount of particles emitted when we sing and found loud and consonant-rich tunes, such as Happy Birthday, spread a lot droplets into the surrounding air.   The Government's Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (Sage) earmarked live musical performances and choirs were one of the more risky events for Covid. This was why music venues, indoor theatres and concerts were the very last amenities to reopen following lockdown. In a report submitted sometime in June, SAGE said it had reviewed a number of international studies and found evidence to suggest that singing can produce more aerosols, or droplet nuclei, than normal talking or breathing. Covid-19 is spread through respiratory secretions, which can take the form of large droplets or smaller aerosols. These are either inhaled directly or transferred by the hands from surfaces where they have been deposited. The document says that the smaller the particle, the further it can advance into the respiratory tract. The authors said: 'There exists some evidence to suggest that singing can produce more aerosols than normal talking or breathing; it may be more akin to a cough. 'Singing for any appreciable amount of time therefore may present a risk for the creation of infectious aerosols and allow for infection transmission.'   The authors added: ''Therefore, at the present time the safest way for groups to sing together is to i) sing outside, ii) use the 2m rule to socially distance and iii) avoid face-to-face positioning.'
No pay cuts at the PFA during the Covid-19 pandemic The PFA have not asked any of their 62 employees to take a pay-cut during the Covid-19 pandemic, Sportsmail has learned. The union’s willingness to pay all of its employees in full throughout the last six months is at odds with the rest of the sporting world’s response to the crisis, with Premier League and Football League clubs, the ECB, RFU and most governing bodies imposing pay cuts and other cost-cutting measures. The PFA’s staffing costs for 2019 were £6.2millon, a figure that is expected to increase this year despite the threat that Covid-19 could decimate finances. Chief executive Gordon Taylor received a salary of £2m as the PFA did not enforce pay cuts Chief executive Gordon Taylor received a salary of £2m, finance director Darren Wilson got £345,000 — and more than a third of the staff were paid in excess of £60,000. In addition, key management personnel such as Taylor, Wilson and Trustees of the PFA Charity — including Garth Crooks and Brendon Batson — shared employee benefits worth over £3m. The PFA have responded to the pandemic by making a £1m donation to NHS charities, with Taylor also contributing £500,000 from his own personal wealth, but they have not offered any financial assistance to cash-strapped clubs and their failure to implement savings has raised eyebrows across the game. The union are cash-rich with assets of £68m, largely due to a long-standing funding deal with the Premier League who give them £23m a year over the current three-year cycle. The PFA have responded to the pandemic by making a £1m donation to NHS charities As Sportsmail reported earlier this week, Wilson’s salary has sparked outrage in the Football League, inflaming tensions caused by the PFA obstructing their attempts to cut costs which many clubs feel will be needed to stay in business this season in the absence of gate receipts. The PFA advised players throughout the Premier League and Football League against taking pay cuts earlier in this year when the effects of lockdown were first being felt, and have taken the EFL to arbitration after League One and League Two clubs voted to introduce a salary cap this season.
Donald Trump says every American should have a vaccine by April President Donald Trump said at the White House Friday that the administration anticipates having enough coronavirus vaccine for the entire country by April – even though no companies have yet announced that they have one that has withstood clinical trials. Trump's comment comes after saying earlier this week that there may be a vaccine available 'a matter of weeks.' On Friday, he used a different metric: when there would be enough vaccine on a mass scale to provide to the nation.  'Hundreds of millions of doses will be available every month, and we expect to have enough vaccines for every American by April,' the president said at the White House.  'Hundreds of millions of doses will be available every month, and we expect to have enough vaccines for every American by April,' President Donald Trump said at a news conference Friday 'In a short time we'll have a safe and effective vaccine and we'll defeat the virus,' he said. Critics have accused Trump of seeking to politicize the virus, with repeated claims that one might be available before the election. 'They're all looking very good,' Trump said of three top variants undergoing testing. Trump said the vaccine would not only save millions of lives, it will 'put an end to the restrictions and some of hte things that go on and have to go on in the meantime.'   Trump advisor Dr. Scott Atlas also touted progress and said  there would be 100 million doses by the end of the year Trump said millions of doses of vaccine would be available by April On Friday, Trump used the vaccine as a club to attack rival Democrat Joe Biden.  He accused Biden of being 'anti-vaccine,' although Biden has said he wants to listen to government scientists and would take one if infectious disease expert Dr. Anthony Fauci gives the okay.  'Joe Biden’s anti vaccine theories are putting a lot of lives at risk,' he said.  'And they’re only doing it for political reasons. It's part of their war to try and discredit the vaccine now that they know we essentially have it, we'll be announcing it fairly soon,' Trump said of Democrats.  He called it 'historic progress' and said 'there's never been anything like this ever in our history, there's never been in history, in world history.' Biden said at a CNN town hall on Thursday: 'I don't trust the President on vaccines. I trust Dr. Fauci. If Fauci says a vaccine is safe, I would take the vaccine. We should listen to the scientists, not to the President.' Dr. Scott Atlas, who has been advising Trump, joined him at the event and said there would be 100 million doses by the end of the year. Other coronavirus task force members, like Fauci and Dr. Robert Redfield of CDC, were not present.  Trump's claims came a day after he and his administration sparred Redfield, the CDC Director, over when a vaccine might be widely available.      White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows portrayed the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention head as out of the loop on the heels of Redfield saying coronavirus vaccines wouldn't be readily available until mid-2021.  'I'm not saying he's not part of the process, I'm saying he's not closest to the decision making as it relates to the clinical 3 trials and the distribution thereof,' Meadows told reporters outside the White House Thursday.  Meadows was echoing comments made by Trump at Wednesday's press briefing, as the president pushed back on the two sound bites that came out of Redfield's testimony earlier in the day before a Senate committee.  White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows told reporters Thursday morning that Centers for Disease Control and Prevention head, Dr. Robert Redfield, was 'not closest to the decision making' when it came to the timeline of COVID-19 vaccine distribution  President Donald Trump contradicted his own CDC chief at Wednesday's press briefing, calling Dr. Robert Redfield 'confused' and 'mistaken' for saying vaccines wouldn't be widely available until halfway through 2021 and masks work better than vaccines  Dr. Robert Redfield testified Wednesday morning before a Senate committee and said a ' face mask is more guaranteed to protect me against COVID than when I take a COVID vaccine.' He also said a COVID-19 vaccine wouldn't be widely available until quarter two or three of 2021  Trump said the CDC head was 'confused' and 'made a mistake' when he told lawmakers most Americans wouldn't get a COVID-19 vaccine until the 'second or third quarter' of 2021 - meaning a full year from now.    The president also said that Redfield must have 'misunderstood' a question on masks.  Redfield held up his mask during testimony and said, 'I might even go so far as to say that this face mask is more guaranteed to protect me against COVID than when I take a COVID vaccine.' 'No, the mask is not more important than the vaccine,' Trump said, telling reporters he called Redfield earlier Wednesday to set him straight. Meadows agreed with Trump on that too.  'If masks truly were the answer where everybody can go back to work, and that they actually worked as the best protocol for keeping people safe, I think everyone would be more than happy to wear their masks and return to work,' Meadows told the press. 'I don't think the science backs that up. I think it's extra precaution and it's good, but it doesn't necessarily make sure that you're, you're not going to come down with COVID.'  The comments the president made at the briefing pushed a Redfield spokesperson to release a statement saying the CDC head was 'answering a question he thought was in regard to the time period in which all Americans would have completed their COVID vaccination.'  'He was not referring to the time period when COVID-19 vaccine doses would be made available to all Americans,' the spokesperson said.  Redfield was also quoted talking up a coronavirus vaccine in the briefing's aftermath.  'I 100 per cent believe in the importance of vaccines and the importance in particular of a COVID-19 vaccine. A COVID-19 vaccine is the thing that will get Americans back to normal everyday life,' Redfield said.   'The best defense we currently have against this virus are the important mitigation efforts of wearing a mask, washing your hands, social distancing and being careful about crowds,' he added.   Meadows suggested that Redfield wasn't fully clued in on the vaccine process because trials were being done by private companies.   The White House chief of staff also slightly disparaged the agency.  'Generally speaking, speed of development and speed of distribution is not the strong suit for the CDC, and we saw that going back to the early days of the testing regimen that aws put forth,' Meadows said.   Meadows then doubled down on the president's abbreviated timeline.  'I can tell you the president is pushing very hard to make sure that we're deliverying a vaccine before the end of the year,' he said. 'I'm not sure where Dr. Redfield got his particular timetable, but it's not based on those that are closest to the process.'   
Bill Gates claims Trump's COVID travel bans accelerated the pandemic Bill Gates has claimed that President Donald Trump's pandemic travel bans actually worsened the coronavirus crisis in the U.S. by prompting a stampede of Americans returning from overseas. 'We created this rush, and we didn't have the ability to test or quarantine those people, and so that seeded the disease here,' Gates told Fox News anchor Chris Wallace in an interview clip released on Friday. 'The ban probably accelerated that because of the way it was executed,' Gates continued. Sounding skeptical, Wallace pressed Gates to explain further, and the software billionaire continued: 'March saw this incredible explosion, the West Coast coming from China, and the East Coast coming out of Europe.'  Scroll down for video  In an interview with Chris Wallace (left), Bill Gates (right) claimed that President Donald Trump's pandemic travel bans actually worsened the coronavirus crisis in the U.S. In response to the international crisis, Trump banned travel to the U.S. from China on January 31, and from continental Europe on March 11, adding the UK soon after A woman wearing a facemask uses hand sanitizer on arrival at Los Angeles International Airport on March 12, 2020, one day before a US flight travel ban hit 26 European countries 'So even though we'd seen China, we'd seen Europe, that testing capacity and clear message of how to behave wasn't there,' Gates continued. In response to the international crisis, Trump banned travel to the U.S. from China on January 31, and from continental Europe on March 11, adding the UK soon after. The president has frequently pointed to the travel bans as evidence of his swift action in the face of the pandemic, saying that he imposed the China ban even as his advisors hesitated and his critics decried the move as racist and xenophobic. Gate's full interview with Wallace is due to air on Fox News Sunday.  Gates, a longtime philanthropist on issues of global healthcare and poverty, earlier this week issued a report saying the coronavirus pandemic has wiped out progress on lofty goals such as ending world poverty and hunger in the next decade. .@BillGates told Chris Wallace in an exclusive interview that President Trump’s travel ban made the coronavirus situation worse. The full interview airs this FOX News Sunday. Check your local listings. #FoxNewsSunday pic.twitter.com/3i7xaCQzja People wait to check in to a flight to Chicago at the United Airlines counter in the main terminal of Brussels International Airport in Brussels, Thursday, March 12, 2020 The report outlines ways in which COVID-19 has wreaked economic damage and derailed progress on many of the global development goals adopted by the United Nations five years ago. 'The COVID-19 pandemic not only stopped progress, it kicked it backward,' said Gates, who co-founded Microsoft Corp, in a conference call with reporters. He and his wife Melinda set up the philanthropic foundation in 2000. U.N. members unanimously passed 17 Sustainable Development Goals, known as SDGs, in 2015, that read like a blueprint of ambitious tasks from ending hunger and gender inequality to expanding access to education and health care. The goals had a deadline of 2030. 'The SDGs represent the values that we have for humanity as a whole,' Gates said. 'The importance of the goals if anything is reinforced by the pandemic,' he said. 'After all, the pandemic has in almost every dimension made inequity worse.' 
Neil Warnock to control team over Zoom after Covid-19 positive test  Middlesbrough boss Neil Warnock will become the first manager to take charge of his side via Zoom on Saturday, as he continues to isolate after testing positive for Covid-19. Sportsmail revealed on Friday that the 71-year-old is one of three cases at the club, but their Championship game at home to Bournemouth will go ahead as planned with 1,000 supporters inside the Riverside Stadium. And Warnock is ready to make all of the key decisions as he watches live from his North-East home. Neil Warnock has tested positive for coronavirus and won't attend Middlesbrough's next game Assistant Kevin Blackwell said: 'The beauty of modern technology - Zoom and things like that - is that we can actually speak to Neil and be in constant contact with him, while the game is going on. We will be using the technology to the best of our advantage. 'Neil has been a big part of the preparations. He'll be speaking to some of the players on the phone over the next 24 hours to talk about what he is expecting from them. The 71-year-old will still take control of his team's game against Bournemouth on Saturday 'Hopefully, he will speak to all of them before the game. He'll be watching from his house up here, and he has everything set up to communicate directly to the ground.' Blackwell, meanwhile, says Warnock is feeling 'fine' in himself. 'That's the frustrating thing, if it was normal flu he'd be back, but we obviously follow all protocols,' he added.
Fashionistas model chic face masks at New York Fashion Week The hottest accessory at New York Fashion Week this fall is one that no fashionista could have seen coming before 2020. But as the world continues to battle the COVID-19 pandemic, fashion, too, has had to evolve to face this 'new normal' — and in August, Governor Andrew Cuomo announced new safety guidelines for Fashion Week, including limiting spectators at shows and capping the number of professionals allowed in a room at one time. Still, the most elite fashionistas have managed to score invites to this seasons ultra-exclusive presentations, and as always, they're dressing the part. This time, though, that means not just fabulous bags, cool shoes, and designer ensembles — it also means protective face masks. These fashion fans are hardly wasting any opportunities when it comes to their newest accessories, using the face-coverings as stylish statement makers for an unprecedented time.  Making a statement! The hottest accessory at New York Fashion Week this fall is one that no fashionista could have seen coming before 2020 — face masks Glitz and glam! The most elite fashionistas have managed to score invites to this seasons ultra-exclusive presentations, and as always, they're dressing the part Celeb alert! Nicky Hilton mixed prints on September 16, teaming a black-and-white mask with a black-and-white ensemble Pop of color! Olivia Palermo isn't one to do 'basic' — so the star accessorized with a hot pink face mask at a show this week Dressed for the occasion! Musical artist Vienna Skye arrived at Alice + Olivia's outdoor show in one of the designer's own colorful masks Powerful — and matching! One particularly coordinated show-goer wore a 'VOTE' mask and 'VOTE' shirt Anything but boring! Caroline Vazzana ditched the utilitarian surgical masks in favor of an embellished one to go with her frilly dress  Feeling the blues! Another guest went for a blue theme, wearing a blue floral mask with a hat and denim jacket Print heaven! Fashion influecner Scarlett Hao turned heads with her Ekaye Collection dress — but kept attention with her pretty patterned mask Aspirational: Among the proof that face masks don't have to be boring is this joyful tropical number Whimsical: This woman's rainbow polka dot hairdo and Hello Kitty face mask are totally playful Silhouette: Some masks are more understated but no less chic  Coordination: These two women made quite the pair in their matching masks Gingham goddess: A few people find fun in more matchy-matchy mask and dress looks Lots of looks! Many fashionistas are making the case for buying more masks for every outfit Saying something! This woman's 'still speaks loudly' mask might be custom  A family affair: Alice + Olivia designer Stacey Bendet set an example at her show — and won the mommy-and-me mask game Always on trend! Leopard is always a hit for fall, and leopard masks are everywhere How patriotic! Jennifer Chun's red, white, and blue mask pairs perfectly with her skirt Mixed bag: New Yorkers have really embraced the variety of designs on offer Fashion Week was last held in February, before the pandemic overtook the US — so this is the first time that the community must grapple with the new restrictions.   New York Fashion Week operated on a tighter schedule from September 13 to 17, shortened by several days from its typical length. The event included live shows but shifted heavily toward virtual programming, with outdoor events capped at 50 people and indoor events restricted to 50 per cent capacity.   Those restrictions applied not just to audience members, but those involved in the show: designers, models, stylists, makeup artists, and other staff members.  While spectators weren't allowed at indoor events, some were able to attend outdoor events on the Spring Place rooftop.  'New York City is the fashion capital of the world and New York Fashion Week celebrates the ingenuity of this city, and our unmatched creative talent,' Governor Cuomo, who has attended New York Fashion Week events in the past, said in a statement.   'When COVID-19 hit New York, so many of our cherished events were forced to cancel or be postponed. The pandemic is far from over, but we're proud to support event organizer IMG in moving forward with NYFW, in adherence with strict state public health guidance.  'Safety, as always, is our top priority and we commend the hosts, and all participating designers, for their innovative, New York Smart solutions to bring this event to life.' Those present at the events were also be expected to adhere to social distancing, diagnostic testing, and health screening procedures — including temperature tests prior to admittance. Face coverings were also required. NYFW producer IMG worked closely with state officials to ensure compliance with Phase 4 reopening guidelines.   'We are grateful to Governor Cuomo and his leadership for their swift, successful response in fighting the spread of the coronavirus, which has now set the standard of excellence for our nation,' the Executive Vice President of IMG's Fashion Events Group, Leslie Russo, said. 'The past six months have been exceedingly difficult for the fashion industry, and we are proud to offer an avenue for designers, models, stylists, hair and makeup artists, photographers, production teams — ­and the innumerable other professionals who work in, or adjacent to, the fashion industry during New York Fashion Week — to safely get back to work this September.' 
Test and trace programme forced to bring in KPMG consultants The struggling test-and-trace programme has been forced to bring in super-management consultants from KPMG in an attempt to get back on track. The government is preparing to draft in a new team to bolster the £10billion scheme which was implemented to manage any second coronavirus wave. The service, which was introduced by Boris Johnson earlier this year as 'world-beating', has been condemned as 'barely functional' after being flooded by demand in recent weeks. It comes as the Prime Minister sounded the Covid-19 alarm after admitting an 'inevitable' surge in cases - with the UK recording a four-month high of 4,322 new infections in the past 24 hours. The struggling test-and-trace programme has been forced to bring in super-management consultants from KPMG in an attempt to get back on track 'Hundreds' of staff from consulting firms including KPMG and EY have been put on standby to work in various parts of the test-and-trace system 'on a short-term basis', according to The Guardian. It is thought that they will be required across the programme including project support, supply chain, data and programme management sectors. The consultants are said to be starting within the next 72 hours and will likely remain for the next six months - with the terms of contracts still being negotiated.  It is not yet clear how much these services will cost the taxpayer.           KPMG declined to comment when approached by MailOnline.  EY and the Department of Health and Social Care have been contacted for comment.  The move comes after Boris Johnson (pictured) tonight admitted that an 'inevitable' second wave of coronavirus had begun to batter the UK, as the nation was placed back on Covid red alert The move comes after Boris Johnson tonight admitted that an 'inevitable' second wave of coronavirus had begun to batter the UK, as the nation was placed back on Covid red alert.  The Prime Minister said a second nationwide lockdown was the 'last thing anybody wants' but revealed his administration was considering whether it needed to 'go further' to see off the new virus surge.  A raft of new measures including localised lockdowns has been put in place this week.     Visiting the Vaccines Manufacturing Innovation Centre construction site near Oxford, Mr Johnson said: 'I don't want to go into bigger lockdown measures at all, we want to keep schools open and it is fantastic the schools have gone back in the way they have.  'We want to keep the economy open as far as we possibly can, we want to keep businesses going. 'The only way we can do that is obviously if people follow the guidance.' Nightingale hospitals were today ordered to be ready to open again within 48 hours - and another swathe of England was plunged into lockdown. Health bosses have revealed the temporary hospital in Birmingham's NEC arena - officially opened by Prince William via videolink during the darkest days of the outbreak in April - has been placed on standby so it can start treating patients within two to three days.  The UK's daily infections hit a four-month high of 4,322 in the past 24 hours with figures showing the outbreak has nearly doubled in size in a week and the R number is potentially as high as 1.4. 
Trump camp hits Biden claim he is at fault for ALL coronavirus deaths Team Trump is going after Vice President Joe Biden for claiming in a town hall Thursday that all people 'would still be alive' rather than succumbing to the coronavirus had the president done his job. Biden tore into the president during a CNN town hall outside his hometown of Scranton, PA – then stretched credulity by blaming the president for every single death.  He was responding to a question from a woman who lost her mother to the coronavirus. 'If the president had done his job, had done his job from the beginning, all the people would still be alive. All the people — I’m not making this up. Just look at the data. Look at the data,' Biden told her.  The claim was quickly highlighted in the Washington Post as 'made up' by factchecker Glen Kessler, who has spent much of the last three years correcting claims by President Donald Trump. Former Arkansas Republican Gov. Mike Huckabee - a Trump surrogate - blasted the remark in an appearance on Fox News Thursday night. 'Joe Biden went hyperbolic at a super-sonic level,' Huckabee quipped.  'Joe Biden has had more flip-flops than Miami Beach on the Fourth of July,' he quipped. 'For him to say that every death was the personal fault of the president, that's pretty outrageous.' Democratic nominee Joe Biden was under fire Friday for claiming at a CNN town hall: 'If the president had done his job, had done his job from the beginning, all the people would still be alive. All the people' President Donald Trump's allies bashed Joe Biden for claiming if Trump had done his job 'all the people would still be alive'  'He didn't say a word when the president took the really unpopular step of saying we were going to ban travel from Europe. 'This was early on in this,' Huckabee said.  He claimed the president was following the advice of government scientist, although he brought up Dr. Anthony Fauci, who Trump has publicly clashed with.     'The president has followed the advice of Dr. Fauci and the counsel that he has surrounded himself with,' said Huckabee. Matt Whitlock, an advisor to the National Republican Senate Campaign, tweeted: '"I'm not making this up" he said as he was making things up. Biden's eagerness to let China off the hook here is outrageous and disqualifying.' As the Post's fact-checker noted, even countries that have been lauded for their response, like South Korea and New Zealand, have experienced deaths: 377 in the case of South Korea, which implemented rapid testing, and 25 in New Zealand. Biden's remarks came at an event where he ripped the president for his coronavirus response, as the nation approaches 200,000 deaths. He brought up modeling that could show another 200,000 deaths  And he seized on the Bob Woodward tapes revealing Trump calling the virus 'deadly stuff' and admitting he liked 'playing it down' and said: 'He knew it and he did nothing. It's close to criminal.' Trump has repeatedly claimed he has done a 'great job' on the virus and also told Woodward in July that 'nothing more could have been done.'  Republican attack: Matt Whitlock is part of the party's Senate campaign apparatus  Speaker of the United States House of Representatives Nancy Pelosi (Democrat of California) made comments at odds with Biden when she said: 'Would they have all been saved? No. But many would have' 'The idea that you're going to not tell people what you've been told that this virus is incredibly contagious, seven times more contagious than the flu. You breathe the air, you get it sucked into your lungs. What has he done?' Biden said. Trump has responded to the taped comments, saying he didn't want to put the country in a 'panic.' House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, during an extended press statement Friday, made comments implying that Biden's remarks were a stretch – while also faulting Trump for actions that led the U.S. to lead the nation in coronavirus deaths.   'We are 200,000 people dead and that didn't have to happen,' Pelosi said.  'Would they have all been saved? No. But many would have. And there are metrics on this, don't take it from me,' she said. 'There are scientific metrics of how many people could have been saved.'  Democratic nominee Joe Biden went after Attorney General Bill Barr for saying that coronavirus lockdown orders were the 'greatest intrusion on civil liberties in American history' since slavery - and called Donald Trump's handling of Covid 'close to criminal.' 'Quite frankly they're sick,' Biden remarked of Barr's comments at a Thursday night CNN town hall with Anderson Cooper, held just outside his hometown of Scranton, PA. 'I never, ever thought I would see such a thoroughly, totally irresponsible administration.'  Biden said he was in disbelief that Barr would almost equate 'following the recommendations of the scientific community' to save lives during the coronavirus crisis to 'people being put in chains.'  'You lost your freedom because he didn't act,' Biden said - that comment likely intended for his political rival, President Donald Trump.   'You've got to level with the American people, shoot from the shoulder. There's never been a time when they've have not been able to step up,' Biden said. 'This president should step down,' the Democratic nominee added. And he seized on the Bob Woodward tapes revealing Trump calling the virus 'deadly stuff' and admitting he liked 'playing it down' and said: 'He knew it and he did nothing. It's close to criminal.' The former vice president said, in contrast, that he'd consider fining people on federal property - which is in the president's jurisdiction - for not wearing masks, after having already called for a nationwide mask mandate, which he'd have to implement by putting pressure on governors.  'If you're on federal property you must wear a mask,' he said. 'And we could have a fine for them not doing it.'  The town hall featured a number of people who experienced loss - a Republican nurse whose police officer husband died from cancer contracted after cleaning up Ground Zero post-9/11, an immunocompromised teacher whose wive lost her mother to COVID-19. Unlike the ABC News town hall earlier in the week with Trump, it did not feature solely undecided voters, and included questions from explicit Biden and Trump supporters.  The event opened with a woman who lost her mother to the coronavirus.          'You've lost your freedom because he didn't act,' Joe Biden said blasting President Donald Trump's inaction on the coronavirus during Thursday night's CNN town hall outside of his hometown of Scranton, Pennsylvania  Joe Biden (left) told Anderson Cooper (right) he'd consider fining people for not wearing masks on federal property if elected president Audience members are photographed watching Joe Biden from outside their cars, as CNN set the town hall up to be like a drive-in movie theater Joe Biden (left) talked to a number of people who experienced loss, including Joe Vadala (right) an immunocompromised teacher whose wife lost her mother to COVID-19  A look at the drive-in movie theater set-up CNN constructed for Joe Biden's Scranton-area town hall event  'First of all, I feel so badly for you,' he told the woman. 'You know, we talk about ... almost 200,000 deaths and it's almost like background noise,'  'But it means a lot of empty chairs. It means a lot of children without their mothers or fathers. It means a lot of people not able to see their parents, so much, so my heart goes out to you,' Biden said.  Biden however made a questionable claim dispute by scientists that Trump was responsible for all U.S. deaths.  'If the president had done his job, had done his job from the beginning, all the people would still be alive,' he said. 'All the people. I’m not making this up. Just look at the data. Look at the data.' The claim was highlighted in the Washington Post as 'made up' by factchecker Glen Kessler.   And while the virus was top of mind, Biden was asked about the summer of racial unrest as well.  Biden explained why he stuck up for peaceful protesters but criticized Trump for restarting his rallies.  The ex-veep said COVID-19 safety was important on both scenarios.  'There is a big difference between people walking, moving along, and people sitting down, cheek to jaw, shoulder to shoulder, a thousand of them, breathing on one another, indoors and out, that causes real serious problems,' he said.  At one point, Cooper asked Biden if he believed he benefited from white privilege.  In one of the taperecorded interviews between Trump and journalist Bob Woodward, Trump scoffed at the idea.  'Sure, I've benefited just because I don't have to go through what my Black brothers and sisters have had to go through,' Biden answered.  Biden then made the point that growing up in Scranton, 'we're used to guys who look down their nose at us.'  'Well I'll tell you what bothered me, to tell you the truth, maybe it's my Scranton roots, I don't know,' he told Cooper. 'But when you guys started talking on television about Biden if he wins will be the first person without an Ivy League degree to be elected president.'  'Who the hell makes you think I have to have an Ivy League degree to be president?' Biden said, garnering applause from the audience.  Biden would be the first president since President Ronald Reagan to not hold an Ivy League degree.    'We are as good as anybody else,' Biden said. 'And guys like Trump who inherited everything and squandered what they inherited are the people I've always had a problem with. Not the people busting their neck.' Throughout the town hall, Biden continued to talk about the election was between Scranton and Park Avenue.  'All that Trump can see from Park Avenue is Wall Street. All he thinks about is the stock market,' Biden said at one point.  He also said that Trump downplayed the coronavirus crisis because his eyes were on Wall Street then as well.  Biden repeatedly spoke of his background in Scranton, his connections to the wider area - including telling a questioner from Philadelphia 'I married a Philly girl' - and referred to his personal experience of grief and loss, with a series of questions at the start coming from people who had suffered bereavement, including a police officer's widow as well as those whose families were hit by coronavirus. The display of empathy played to Biden's strengths as a campaigner, something which he has been unable to do for the past six months, and also presented a contrast to Trump's town hall earlier in the week. Hillary Clinton lost Scranton in the course of her defeat in Pennsylvania, one of the three 'blue wall' states which were won by Trump. But after the event Biden said he would win Scranton. He had won applause from the audience for praising it and has returned repeatedly to it over the years. Biden, 77, also stood throughout the town hall, despite chairs being on stage for him and Cooper, a contrast to Trump, 73, sitting throughout his ABC News town hall in Philadelphia on Tuesday.   Trump had assailed Biden as 'shot' and physically and mentally incapable of becoming president, which Biden's supporters say has simply lowered the bar on how he has to perform at the debates.  His performance will be studied closely by Trump's aides - and by Trump - ahead of the first presidential debate on September 29, a week on Tuesday. Cooper asked Biden if he was practicing and if someone was playing Trump and Biden said 'not so far,' saying he was practicing being 'concise.' Unlike the town hall, the debate comes with time limits and moderator Chris Wallace proved a fierce enforcer of them in 2016. Two people are asking him questions, he said. On Air Force One as the town hall began, Trump's chief of staff Mark Meadows warned that Biden should not be underestimated as an opponent - even though Trump has been reported to have privately scorned practicing and said he would force Biden to stutter or make a gaffe. 'To suggest that you shouldn't take him seriously would be misguided,' Meadows said, noting Biden's almost five decades in electoral politics.  Trump has also suggested that Biden was 'on drugs or something' when he performed well in the later Democratic primary debates, and suggested taking a drug test. In Wisconsin Thursday he addressed a rally as Biden's town hall concluded, and railed at Biden, claiming the Democrat used a teleprompter, while reading from two teleprompters himself. His campaign accused Cooper of 'giving Biden a total pass on his lies and misrepresentations' and the questions being 'an invitation for him to attack President Trump.' Trump campaign adviser Jason Miller tweeted: 'This town hall is an in-kind contribution to the Biden campaign.' President Trump knew how deadly COVID-19 was and did nothing. It’s close to criminal. #BidenTownHall pic.twitter.com/OL3uIA1QSZ Drive-in with Biden: Obama's vice-president's town hall was in the format of a drive-in theater Joe Biden's town hall comes two days after President Donald Trump participated in a Philadelphia town hall, filmed indoors at the National Constitution Center, with only people posing questions as audience members. They wore masks and sat six feet apart  CNN created a drive-in movie theater set-up inside a ball park for the event.  'Who knew drive-ins were coming back?' Cooper remarked as the event opened.  Biden's audience consisted 250 people gathered, the campaign confirmed, keeping in line with Pennsylvania's coronavirus regulations.  The ball park is where the Scranton/Wilkes-Barre RailRiders play.  The old school drive-in has become a stand-in on the Democratic side for campaign rallies, as Biden and his running mate Kamala Harris have preached caution about supporters attending gatherings due to the coronavirus pandemic.  The Democratic Party set up a drive-in in a parking lot outside the Chase Center in Wilmington, Delaware on the final night of the Democratic National Convention so there would be an audience to cheer Biden and Harris as they emerged together as the official presidential ticket to watch fireworks. Supporters watched the virtual convention on large screens and then cheered and honked their horns when Biden and Harris briefly appeared.   Additionally, in cities around the country, watch parties were set up drive-in style so Democratic supporters could watch Biden's nominating speech together.   The town hall brings Biden - who was born in Scranton before moving to Wilmington - to the key swing state two days after President Donald Trump made the trek to Philadelphia for his own town hall with Pennsylvania voters.  Trump's town hall was produced by ABC News and was filmed indoors at the National Constitution Center, where the only audience was the likely voters questioning the president.  They all sat six feet apart and wore masks, until they posed their questions to Trump.  The president has been more cavalier about his campaigning amid a continued spread of the coronavirus.  Last weekend he held his first indoor rally since June in the state of Nevada.  He's packed thousands into airport hangars as well.  The campaign has encouraged mask-wearing of attendees, but droves have rebelled.  At a recent rally in New Hampshire, Trump supporters booed when a voice over the loudspeaker encouraged them to wear masks.  The president told the Las Vegas Review-Journal that he wasn't personally worried about contracting the coronavirus at these events.   'I'm on a stage and it's very far away,' he told the paper. 'And so I'm not at all concerned.'    Former Vice President Joe Biden skewered President Donald Trump for refusing to say outright he would accept the results of the election, then provided his own answer to the question.  'Sure, the full results. Count every vote,' Biden responded, asked by CNN host Anderson Cooper about the freighted topic during a live, outdoor town hall-style meeting.  'Look, i mean, can anybody – any of you are history majors out there think of any president early on who said I'm not sure I'm going to accept the results of the election? It depends?' Biden said, raising his voice for emphasis. 'What's happened to us? This is not who we are. This is not what America is. No president's ever said anything like that.' Former Vice President Joe Biden blasted President Donald Trump for refusing to say he will accept the election results. 'Sure, the full results. Count every vote,' Biden responded when asked if he would do so Responding to a question about mail-in voting – the subject of repeated escalating attacks by President Trump – Biden responded: 'Look, if the president had even remote confidence that he was likely to win the election, he wouldn't be doing this.' He told Cooper: 'Remember, I wasn't on your show, but I said some months ago, I predict the president is going to try to move the Election Day. Everybody said oh he'd never do that.  Guess what? He suggested maybe we should move the election date, postpone the election,' Biden said. Powerful Senate Republicans immediately shot down the idea after Trump floated it.   President Donald Trump has refused to say he will accept the election results. He said in July: 'Trump said in July: 'I have to see. No, I'm not going to just say yes. I'm not going to say no, and I didn't last time either' In this file photo, absentee voting manager Matt Kelly holds the ballot envelopes that will be used to mail ballots at the Franklin County Board of Elections office in Columbus on Wednesday, July 29 Trump loyalist Attorney General Bill Barr has also blasted mail-in voting 'He's done every single thing, including having a postmaster general who still doesn't know who dismantled those machines – who ordered picking up those places to mail your ballots,' Biden said. 'I mean, it just is all about trying to delegitimize the effort.' Trump told Fox News Sunday's Chris Wallace in July when pressed on whether he would accept the results: 'I have to see. No, I'm not going to just say yes. I'm not going to say no, and I didn't last time either.' Trump took a similar posture in 2016, when he said: 'I will tell you at the time. I will keep you in suspense.'  Cooper asked him point blank: 'Would you commit tonight to accepting the results of the election?' Biden's call to 'count every vote' only hints at the political and legal battle that lies ahead. He is assembling a team of top litigators, including former solicitors general, to fight to allow ballots and anticipating challenges. Trump continues to rail against mail-in voting, as he did at the White House yesterday.   Trump tweeted Thursday morning: 'Because of the new and unprecedented massive amount of unsolicited ballots which will be sent to 'voters', or wherever, this year, the Nov 3rd Election result may NEVER BE ACCURATELY DETERMINED, which is what some want. Another election disaster yesterday. Stop Ballot Madness!,'    Asked by a Philadelphia voter what he would do to secure mail-in voting if elected, Biden said: 'I would not try to throw into question the legitimacy of the election like this president and the people around him have done.'     He spoke about an election two years ahead, when COVID-19 will hopefully be on the wane. 'Look it's all about people showing up and voting.  And i'm confident notwithstanding all the efforts the president's made, I think you're going to see a massive turnout,' he said. 
SUNY Oneonta has worst college outbreak of COVID-19 in New York The worst college coronavirus outbreak in New York that has forced a campus to shut down has been plagued by isolation party selfies, suspensions and even a COVID-19 SWAT team.  The State University of New York at Oneonta was forced to cancel in-person classes for the fall earlier this month following the huge COVID-19 outbreak. Since returning to campus, more than 670 students - a tenth of the student population - have tested positive for COVID-19. SUNY Oneonta currently has the worst on-campus COVID-19 outbreak in the state and one of the largest in the United States.  Some have blamed the outbreak on the university's lack of COVID-19 screening when students returned to campus and a failure to monitor parties and gatherings that have been held. A photo that emerged earlier this month drew backlash after it showed about a dozen infected students partying in an isolation dorm on campus.  The State University of New York at Oneonta was forced to cancel in-person classes for the fall earlier this month following the huge COVID-19 outbreak. This photo that emerged earlier this month drew backlash after it showed about a dozen infected students partying in an isolation dorm on campus The photo, which was posted on social media just days after the campus switched to remote learning, showed the group of students drinking and smiling as they posed for the selfie.  SUNY Oneonta president Barbara Jean Morris immediately slammed the photo and vowed to discipline - and possibly suspend - the students involved.  'We have seen the photo taken in one of our residence halls of students blatantly violating our strict safety protocols and code of conduct and putting themselves and others at risk,' Morris said.  'We are working to identify the students and will quickly issue disciplinary actions and possible suspensions. We will also step up our monitoring of these residence halls to prevent this behavior from happening again and to continue to protect the safety and health of our students.  'It is deeply disappointing that following the severe action SUNY Oneonta took just days ago to shift to remote learning for all students, we are still faced with the reckless and irresponsible behavior of a few that are damaging the reputation of our campus and our dedicated students who followed the safety rules every day and were looking forward to a great semester on campus.' The photo, which was posted on social media just days after the campus switched to remote learning, showed the group of students drinking and smiling as they posed for the selfie Some have blamed the outbreak on the university's failure to monitor parties from taking place SUNY Oneonta had already suspended a handful of students in late August for organizing parties.  Jim Malatras, SUNY's chancellor, blamed the partying students for the outbreak on campus after more than 100 students - about three percent of the campus population - tested positive for COVID-19.  'We have had reports of several large parties of our students at Oneonta last week, and unfortunately because of those larger gatherings, there were several students who were symptomatic of COVID,' Malatras said at the time.  'Despite the diligence of the vast majority of our SUNY Oneonta students, faculty and staff, the actions of a few individuals who didn't comply resulted in the spread of COVID-19 over the past week.'  The chancellor opted to suspend classes for two weeks on August 30 as a result of the outbreak.   It prompted New York Governor Andrew Cuomo to intervene by sending what he described as a 'SWAT team' to the campus to help control the outbreak.  Since returning to campus, more than 670 students - a tenth of the student population - have tested positive for COVID-19. SUNY Oneonta currently has the worst on-campus COVID-19 outbreak in the state Five days after suspending classes, the number of cases jumped to more than 500.  Malatras announced on September 5 that the campus would cease all in-person classes and activities for the rest of the fall semester due to the outbreak.  As the university investigates what when wrong with their reopening plan, they are facing accusations they mishandled the COVID-19 outbreak.  Some students and parents have slammed the school's decision not to require proof of a negative test prior to returning to campus.  They also say the university didn't test students once they arrived.  Malatras, who officially became chancellor on August 31, has since said that all SUNY schools will need to develop testing plans ahead of next semester.  Surveillance testing is now also mandatory on all campuses.   Oneonta is one of 64 campuses run by the State University of New York. There are about 3,000 students based there. Oneonta is the first to be shut down due to COVID-19 since reopening. 
South Wales club members 'had Covid symptoms' on trip to Doncaster A group of social club friends accused of causing a local lockdown after they went on a boozy weekend away at the races already had Covid symptoms and were awaiting test results before they set off, one of their partners has claimed. The bus-load of 15, including four members of the Lindsay Con Club in Abercynon, South Wales, embarked on their annual 200-mile trip to Doncaster on Saturday. After they returned the area saw a spike in Covid cases, forcing the Welsh government to put the whole Rhondda Cynon Taf area under lockdown - with the club blamed for bringing the virus home with them. Lindsay Cons Club member Donna Clifton said 15 friends went on the trip from South Wales to Doncaster - despite some suffering symptoms and waiting on test results Now club member Donna Clifton - whose husband was among those who made the journey - has spoken out to defend the group. She revealed some of them already had Covid symptoms before they left. And she claimed they did not enter Doncaster Racecourse itself, instead visiting a pub and a hotel to place bets. And Ms Clifton said claims that the group stopped off in several pubs along the way to were untrue. 'It's an annual trip that's been running for years. They had a bet, they had a pint, same as what happens every year.  'Nothing was done any different. I know they didn't stop off in pubs on the way up to Doncaster because they never do. 'They go straight to Doncaster, into a pub, into a hotel, back home on the Sunday.  The group of friends did not actually enter Doncaster Racecourse, but instead went to a pub and hotel nearby to place bets  'A number of people had Covid before the trip but hadn't had any test results back. It was about 15 of them on the bus. They did the same as they do every year. 'They didn't take precautions because nobody had Covid. So you wouldn't take precautions. ' Donna added that those who have since tested positive have suffered 'flu like symptoms' with a loss of taste and smell. Hundreds of people in the village of Abercynon have now flocked to a testing centre out of fear they have the virus.  Club treasurer Phillip Brown hit out after the club was linked to the trip by Welsh Government Health minister Vaughan Gething. Mr Brown said the venue had been 'virtually blamed' for the spread in Rhondda Cynon Taf, a council area that stretches from north Cardiff to the Brecon Beacons. The weekend away linked to the Lindsay Cons Club in the village of Abercynon has been blamed for causing the local lockdown - with club bosses saying it has been 'dragged through the mud' Lee Brown, who went on the trip, insisted the Welsh Government were wrongly blaming them The club had to close days before the races because of coronavirus fears - with a number of people later becoming sick. Mr Brown said the bus trip itself was not run by the venue - but four or five of his members attended. He said: 'They have dragged our club through the mud, virtually blaming us for a situation in Rhondda Cynon Taf and locking down because they reckon we are responsible. 'We are not responsible. We've done every measure possible to help Public Health Wales and the Welsh Government.' Lee Brown was one of the 15 friends from Abercynon who took the coach trip to Doncaster races. Mr Brown, 45, insisted the group didn’t stop at all during the 220-miles journey to Doncaster when they left on Friday morning. He said they spent two nights in the town’s Premier Inn and only visited one pub that he ‘couldn’t remember the name off’ during their two-day trip. They couldn’t go into the races because the event was closed to spectators after the first day. Mr Brown insisted that they had been made scapegoats by the Welsh government who blamed a cluster of Covid cases in the Rhonda Valley on their annual event.  In a statement the course said: 'Doncaster Racecourse has received no contact from any organisation, including the NHS or the Welsh Government, to verify the attendance of any individuals at last week's event for the purposes of track and trace' Speaking to MailOnline, he said: ‘It’s complete nonsense. We only went to one pub the whole time we were in Doncaster. ‘We were in our own bubble, we didn’t mix with anyone else and we certainly didn’t bring the virus home with us. Everyone who went has been tested and none of us had it. ‘We are all fine - the Welsh Government are just using us as scapegoats. Coronavirus was in the village before we went to Doncaster.’ Mr Gething said the day out led to a 'significant' rise in cases after a coach-load of friends went on a pub crawl and then racing. He told a press conference: 'There are a number of clusters in Rhondda Cynon Taf - two of which are significant. 'One is associated with a rugby club and pub in the lower Rhondda and the other with a club outing to the Doncaster races, which stopped off at a series of pubs on the way.' He said the trip led to 'a number of infections'. But Doncaster Racecourse hit back - saying they had received no visitors from South Wales since they reopened. In a statement the course said: 'Doncaster Racecourse has received no contact from any organisation, including the NHS or the Welsh Government, to verify the attendance of any individuals at last week's event for the purposes of track and trace. 'In addition, we do not have any ticket bookings for any groups from the South Wales area for Wednesday's event. 'We will be contacting the Welsh Health Minister as a matter of urgency to clarify the situation.' The Welsh Government later tweeted: 'We understand that though the original intention of the party was to travel to the Doncaster Racecourse, the party did not enter the racecourse as originally planned.'
Club World Cup in Qatar could be CANCELLED due to covid-19 This year's Club World Cup in Qatar could be delayed or scrapped due to the coronavirus pandemic, FIFA president Gianni Infantino has said. The competition, which brings together the club champions from the six regional confederations, is due to take place in December as part of the Middle East state's preparations for hosting the World Cup in 2022. However, delays to international club competitions - such as South America's Copa Libertadores - mean it could be pushed back to 2021 or abandoned altogether. This year's Club World Cup could be pushed back or cancelled as a result of covid-19 Infantino said: 'When it comes to the current Club World Cup of 2020, well since many confederations or some confederations will probably not conclude their Champions Leagues until December, it is unlikely that this event will take place in December of this year as was originally planned. 'But we are discussing, we are monitoring, we are seeing if it can be hosted in Qatar maybe at the beginning of the (new) year. 'We certainly want to see if we can keep it, we will do that consulting all the confederations and all the participating clubs and take the best decision for football.' Infantino told delegates from the 211 national associations gathered virtually for FIFA's 70th Congress that the organisation was in good financial health despite the pandemic, 'because the money doesn't disappear any more'. FIFA has launched a Covid-19 relief plan made up of grants and interest-free loans worth 1.5 billion US dollars. He said FIFA's murky past and victim status in a number of ongoing corruption cases was the reason why he had on many occasions met with prosecutors from a wide range of countries, including three meetings with Swiss attorney general Michael Lauber in 2016 and 2017 which are now the subject of criminal proceedings. Gianni Infantino said he is monitoring whether it could be held in Qatar at the start of 2021 'In 2015 FIFA was toxic, it was pronounced dead,' he said. 'It was an organisation that had served itself from football, had used football, instead of serving football. 'Why was I meeting the Swiss attorney general? Because it was my duty as FIFA president. I wanted to liberate FIFA from those old, toxic values. 'No organisation can be led into the future if you don't resolve the past.' Infantino said he had been given no new information related to the proceedings against him since they were opened at the end of July, but described the suggestion that they involved any illegal activity as 'absurd' and 'far-fetched'. It comes due to delays to competitions such as South America's Copa Libertadores  FIFA's former secretary general Jerome Valcke is currently standing trial in Switzerland over alleged criminal mismanagement while in office in relation to the sale of media rights to FIFA competitions. He denies the charges he faces. FIFA dropped a criminal complaint against another defendant in the same trial, Paris St Germain president Nasser Al Khelaifi, after reaching a settlement. Asked why FIFA had not just let the case proceed, he said it was a matter for the organisation's legal department and that the settlement was perfectly legal. Al Khelaifi, who is a serving member of UEFA's executive committee, denies a charge of inciting Valcke to commit criminal mismanagement. The Congress approved a rule change which will give players greater scope to switch national teams. Roberto Firmino scored the winner for Liverpool against Flamengo to win the trophy last year Players can now represent a second national team, provided they meet eligibility criteria and have played no more than three matches for the first national team at senior level, with all the appearances coming before the player turns 21. Appearances in World Cup finals matches or continental finals such as the Euros would also prohibit a player from switching, but appearing in a tournament qualifier would not. Infantino confirmed the 71st FIFA Congress would be held in Tokyo next year.
Is England heading for a HALF-TERM lockdown? The Prime Minister said a second lockdown was the 'last thing anybody wants' but revealed his administration was considering whether it needed to 'go further' than the current national restrictions that were put in place this week Boris Johnson tonight admitted that an 'inevitable' second wave of coronavirus had begun to batter the UK, as the nation was placed back on Covid red alert. The Prime Minister said a second nationwide lockdown was the 'last thing anybody wants' but revealed his administration was considering whether it needed to 'go further' to see off the new virus surge.  A raft of new measures including localised lockdowns has been put in place this week.  Visiting the Vaccines Manufacturing Innovation Centre construction site near Oxford, Mr Johnson said: 'I don't want to go into bigger lockdown measures at all, we want to keep schools open and it is fantastic the schools have gone back in the way they have. We want to keep the economy open as far as we possibly can, we want to keep businesses going. 'The only way we can do that is obviously if people follow the guidance.' Nightingale hospitals were today ordered to be ready to open again within 48 hours - and another swathe of England was plunged into lockdown. Health bosses have revealed the temporary hospital in Birmingham's NEC arena - officially opened by Prince William via videolink during the darkest days of the outbreak in April - has been placed on standby so it can start treating patients within two to three days.  The dramatic move came as the UK's daily infections hit a four-month high of 4,322, with figures showing the outbreak has nearly doubled in size in a week and the R number is potentially as high as 1.4.  Amid growing alarm that the situation is sliding out of control, curbs including a 10pm curfew on pubs and restaurants and a ban on socialising outside of households have been announced across parts of the North West, Midlands and West Yorkshire from Tuesday.  A total of around 13million people are now under under local restrictions. And Health Secretary Matt Hancock has raised the prospect of even more draconian steps, begging the public to 'come together to tackle this virus'. Ministers are mulling a two-week 'circuit-breaker' nationwide halt that could see much of the hospitality industry shut - although no final decisions have been made as ministers wrangle over the effect on the economy.  Mr Johnson suggested the public - who were until this month being encouraged to return to work and eat out to help the economy - dropped their guard and allowed the virus to gain a new foothold.  Asked if the Government had eased lockdown too quickly, he said: "They got that peak under control, they brought it right down, they brought the number of infections right down by discipline and everybody adjusting our behaviours and the way we go about our lives - hands, face, space. "And I think probably, truth to tell, what's happened here and what alas has happened in so many other countries is that people find it difficult to keep this up.' On another twisting and turning day in the coronavirus crisis: Boris Johnson on dealing with the 'inevitable' second wave Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg has died at age 87 People party in street in Nottingham despite second wave imminent Couple built natural swimming pool in back garden in two years Birmingham freshers enjoy night out in Birmingham city centre Daredevil climber spotted on Paris skyscraper bare hands Lord McColl says don't blame COVID rates on Government Horrifying moment toddlers are crushed by falling cabinet drawers Drinkers in Newcastle partake in messy night out prior to lockdown Paraglider pulls off perfect ground spiral manoeuvre Listen at an alligator inhaling helium in the name of science Pensioner tells of how he got scammed £330,000 of his life savings Visiting the Vaccines Manufacturing Innovation Centre construction site near Oxford, Mr Johnson said: 'I don't want to go into bigger lockdown measures at all,  we want to keep schools open ... we want to keep businesses going. The only way we can do that is obviously if people follow the guidance'  The government is mulling what has been described as a 'circuit breaker' in a bid to stem the spread of coronavirus. But it would not be quite as draconian as the lockdown that was imposed at the previous height of the crisis in March. Instead it would be similar to the lockdowns that have been introduced locally in areas with high infection levels.  Restrictions would be imposed nationwide for perhaps a fortnight, in the hope that short sharp action can break the chain of transmission.  LOCKED DOWN:   UNLOCKED  The Prime Minister said his administration was considering whether it needed to 'go further' than the current national restrictions that were put in place this week. Asked about the possibility of a two-week October half-term in order to bring in a short lockdown, Mr Johnson told reporters: 'What I can certainly say about parents and schools is we want to keep the schools open, that is going to happen. 'We want to try and keep all parts of the economy open as far as we possibly can - I don't think anybody wants to go into a second lockdown but clearly when you look at what is happening, you have got to wonder whether we need to go further than the rule of six that we have brought in on Monday, so we will be looking at the local lockdowns we have got in large parts of the country now, looking at what we can do to intensify things that help bring the rate of infection down there, but also looking at other measures as well. 'What I will say is, as we go forward, we will be explaining in great detail to people what the scientific background is, what the epidemiology is saying and really how we propose to do it.' Chancellor Rishi Sunak is believed to have raised concerns about the consequences of a blanket lockdown at a meeting yesterday. One option under consideration is believed to be timing the curbs for the half-term holidays in October, and extending the break to a fortnight. That would minimise the harm to children, many of whom have already seen their education seriously disrupted.  However, it is not clear whether the government can wait that long as cases surge, with new figures confirming they are doubling every eight days. Schools and workplaces could instead stay open instead while the rest of society is subject to restrictions.  The chilling developments came as concerns grow about the shambolic testing system, with demand four times capacity and claims the Government's seven 'lighthouse labs' are in chaos due to shortages of staff and equipment.  A leading scientist warned that 'testing is dying on its a**e', adding he was 'appalled by what I saw' at the labs.  The latest areas to face lockdown are Lancashire, Merseyside, Warrington, Halton, Wolverhampton, Oadby & Wigston, and parts of Bradford, Kirklees and Calderdale.  The restrictions vary across areas, but include only socialising with their own households or support bubble, restricting restaurants to table service, and curtailing late-night operating hours.  In Merseyside, Warrington, Halton, and Lancashire, apart from Blackpool and Greater Manchester, people are also advised to only use public transport for essential purposes, such as travelling to school or work, and to avoid attending amateur and semi-professional sporting events as spectators. The new rules do not apply to Bolton or Greater Manchester where separate restrictions are already in place. People who are shielding in parts of north-east Blackburn where eight wards are under local restrictions will no longer need to from October 5, bringing them into line with the rest of Blackburn with Darwen where shielding is already due to pause Monday.  In the Midlands, residents in Wolverhampton and Oadby & Wigston will be banned from socialising with people outside their own households or support bubbles in private homes and gardens from September 22. Meanwhile in West Yorkshire, residents in all parts of Bradford, Kirklees and Calderdale are also banned from socialising with other households or bubbles in private homes and gardens. Some wards in these areas had previously been exempt from such restrictions but the Government has confirmed they are now all bound by them. Boris Johnson on dealing with the 'inevitable' second wave Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg has died at age 87 People party in street in Nottingham despite second wave imminent Couple built natural swimming pool in back garden in two years Birmingham freshers enjoy night out in Birmingham city centre Daredevil climber spotted on Paris skyscraper bare hands Lord McColl says don't blame COVID rates on Government Horrifying moment toddlers are crushed by falling cabinet drawers Drinkers in Newcastle partake in messy night out prior to lockdown Paraglider pulls off perfect ground spiral manoeuvre Listen at an alligator inhaling helium in the name of science Joan Collins claims late sister sent her sign as house had power cut  Another change announced is that individuals who are shielding in Leicester will no longer need to from October 5. The new north-west restrictions apply to Blackburn with Darwen, Pendle, Preston, Rossendale, Hyndburn, Burnley and South Ribble, West Lancashire, Chorley, Wyre, Fylde, Lancaster and Ribble Valley in Lancashire, and to Liverpool, Wirral, Knowsley, St Helens, Sefton, Halton and Warrington in Merseyside and Cheshire. Mr Hancock said: 'We are seeing cases of coronavirus rise fast in Lancashire, Merseyside, West Yorkshire, Warrington, Halton and Wolverhampton. 'Local leaders in these areas have asked for stronger restrictions to be put in place to protect local people, and we are acting decisively to support them. 'I know these restrictions will make every-day life harder for many, but I know that residents will work together and respect the rules so we can reduce rates of transmission.'  Ian Brookfield, the leader of Wolverhampton city council, said: 'These measures are like those which were in place at the height of the pandemic and the message is simple; you mustn't allow people who are not part of your household or bubble into your home or garden, or go to visit them in their house or garden in Wolverhampton or elsewhere.' 'We've all had to do this before; now we need to do it again if we are to stop the spread of coronavirus, keep our loved ones safe and protect jobs and our economy. Please play your part and together we will get through this.' Matt Hancock today defied evidence that the testing system is in chaos as he claimed checks are 'available in every part of the country'. Despite the government's own website turning people away or offering them tests huge distances from home, the Health Secretary accused the media of making up the problems. 'The message to people is do come forward, there are tests available,' he told the BBC. 'By the way there are tests available in every part of the country. 'Do not believe these stories when they appear on newspapers saying there aren't test available here, there are tests available in every part of the country.' A Downing Street spokesman added: 'I am not aware of anything to suggest that tests aren't available in some parts of the country.'  The claims came despite the government's own figures showing that testing availability is being stretched to breaking point. One in 10 people were having to travel more than 27 miles for a test as of last week - and 5 per cent have to travel more than 47 miles. However, many people claim they have been unable to access any tests at all. In one extreme case, a Durham resident was offered a test at Aberdeen airport.   London mayor Sadiq Khan warned that the capital was not far away from being plunged into lockdown, as he confirmed that New Year celebrations are being axed.  'What we've seen in other parts of the country and in the North East in particular is an instruction for bars and restaurants to close at 10pm,' Mr Khan said. 'The reason for that is to minimise the amount of hours people spend socialising which can increase the risk of the virus spreading. 'We're looking into all possibilities in London and we're looking to see which policies across the country are successful. 'According to the latest evidence I've seen we're about two weeks behind some parts of the country.' The Government's chief science and medical officers have warned that another serious outbreak of coronavirus could lead to a significant number of deaths by the end of next month. They are said to be pushing for harsher restrictions across England, including on activities in public space and either the closure of pubs and restaurants or tough curfews.   Confirming the SAGE advisory board had considered the option, one scientist on the panel told the FT: 'As schools will be closed for one week at half-term, adding an extra week to that will have limited impact on education.' Recent analysis from Imperial College London suggests Covid-19 rates are doubling every seven to eight days. The unnamed scientist warned rising coronavirus levels could 'break the NHS', criticising the Government's test-and-trace system by warning it was 'creaking at the seams'. On Wednesday, Boris Johnson told a committee of MPs: 'I don't want a second national lockdown. I think it would be completely wrong for this country and we are going to do everything in our power to prevent it.'  But the Government's Scientific Pandemic Influenza Group on Modelling (SPI-M) has been considering a two-week shutdown in October. In a round of interviews this morning, Mr Hancock said a national lockdown was the 'last line of defence'. But he warned that this is a 'big moment for the country' and the situation is 'deadly serious'. Unless the 'Rule of Six' restrictions worked more would have to be done, he warned. 'The virus is clearly accelerating across the country,' Mr Hancock told Sky News. 'We have got to take the necessary action to keep people safe. We will do what it takes to keep people safe.'      Another 4,322 people have been diagnosed with Covid-19, the Government announced today in the highest one-day rise since May 8, as a raft of worrying statistics revealed the Covid-19 crisis appears to be rebounding. Data from the Office for National Statistics suggests 6,000 people are catching the life-threatening illness every day in England while hospital admissions have doubled in a week and government scientists warn the R rate could now be as high as 1.4. For comparison, last week the ONS estimated just 3,200 new cases were truly occurring each day but now there are more than this showing up in positive tests alone. The ONS report suggests swab-testing is picking up around half of all infections, with an average of 3,300 people currently testing positive for Covid-19 each day. It is considered the most accurate data of its kind and falls in line with figures from a separate symptom-tracking app, which estimates cases have also doubled in a week to 7,500. SAGE today revealed the R rate of the virus in the UK could be as high as 1.4 - the highest estimate since the group began making them. Outbreaks are also growing in all regions and expanding by up to eight or nine per cent per day in some places, Number 10's advisory board also warned. Asked about the prospect of blanket curbs, Mr Hancock said: 'It isn't something that we ever take off the table, but it isn't something that we want to see either. 'The country once again needs to come together and recognise there is a serious challenge. That the virus is accelerating. 'Unfortunately, it isn't just cases increasing, it's also the number of people ending up in hospital increasing.'  A Downing Street spokesperson said: 'We have always been clear that our strategy is to keep the virus down as much as possible while protecting education and the economy. 'I would point to the words of the Health Secretary this morning where he said that we are prepared to take action if necessary. 'But we, obviously, want to avoid any extended lockdown... Our focus is to reduce transmission rates.' Mr Hancock also dismissed rumours that Mr Johnson was 'exhausted and defeated' by his workload, months after recovering from coronavirus. He said the PM remained 'enormously vigorous' and that the seriousness of the decisions taken by the Government should not be overestimated. '(He's) enormously vigorous and I think it's important to recognise that this is a really big moment,' he told Times Radio. 'The seriousness of the decisions we take can't be overestimated and we're making judgments about how to protect the health of the nation and how to save tens of thousands of lives whilst balancing that with the enormous social and economic and health impacts of the measures that we have to take. 'These are huge decisions and very weighty ones and so it's hugely understandable that the people making them should be taking them extremely seriously.' Experts warned that the tougher restrictions look inevitable.  Dr Julian Tang, an honorary associate professor in the department of respiratory sciences at the University of Leicester, told MailOnline: 'Australia has already gone into (short-circuit lockdowns) and so has New Zealand. I think that probably is going to come here too.  'You won't reduce the rate of transmission if the schools stay open and people are going out shopping.' Dr Tang added: 'Local lockdown approach may work to start with but once they start to coalesce you're looking at a national lockdown option as they are combining into one mass of cases. 'People travel between cities, they travel between places. Unless you stop people from travelling this is going to continue to happen. 'It's like a forest fire. If you don't have major fire breaks all along the forest line you're going to get it jumping across to other parts, unless you make a fire break around the whole forest boundary. 'If you shut down just one part the virus goes around it so it's going to be, I suspect, that this half-term lockdown may happen.' Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer has urged Boris Johnson to convene a meeting of the Government's emergency committee Cobra following a sharp rise in coronavirus cases. He said: 'I am deeply concerned about the sharp rise in coronavirus cases and the difficulties people across the country are facing getting a test. 'There is mounting concern about whether we have got the virus sufficiently under control. This is the time for swift, decisive national action. We cannot afford to be too slow. 'That's why I'm asking the Prime Minister to convene a Cobra meeting and to update the country on the measures the Government is taking to keep the virus under control, including to fix testing. Sadiq Khan was today criticised for his 'devastating' decision to scrap the New Year's Eve fireworks in London - as events industry bosses urged him to consider the impact of cancellation. The Mayor of London has confirmed the display, which typically takes place near the London Eye, will not go ahead as 'we can't afford' to have large numbers of people congregating amid the coronavirus pandemic. Mr Khan added the New Year will instead be welcomed by 'something that people can enjoy in the comfort of their living rooms,' but he was unable to give details. The move has since been slammed by industry insiders, with Peter Heath of the Professional Lighting and Sound Association urging Mr Khan to 'think about the impact of cancelling live events on industry, on the UK economy and the wellbeing of citizens.' Speaking to MailOnline, he added: 'This is devastating news, not just for the event workers responsible for putting on a show-stopping spectacle, but also for the millions of spectators that look forward to ringing in the New Year. 'While we understand the need to exercise social distancing, we need to think about the impact of cancelling live events on industry, on the UK economy and the wellbeing of citizens. 'The British public want to know what the situation is and what the Government is going to do about it. 'I want to make clear too that Labour will continue to act in the national interest. We will support whatever measures the Government take to protect the NHS and save lives.' Drinkers flocked to watering holes in the northeast last night after Matt Hancock confirmed the region would be hit by a 10pm curfew on pubs and bars starting tonight. Around 9.2 million Britons had already been put under tougher local lockdown restrictions because of a spike in cases of coronavirus, but that figure has now risen to around 13million.  The Northeast saw a busy night in bars before its curfew came into force at midnight, meaning different households are prevented from mixing and making pubs and restaurants close at 10pm. Venues in Northumberland, North Tyneside, South Tyneside Newcastle-upon-Tyne, Gateshead, Sunderland and County Durham are now only allowed to offer table service.  Sean Southern from The Gateshead Arms told MailOnline of the impact the new restrictions are likely to have on business. He said: 'We used to be open until 12.30am, then because of Covid we reduced that to 11pm and now we're being told we have to shut at 10pm. 'Those hours are absolutely crucial for us, and probably our busiest time for those who want to have a few drinks before going further afield or going home. 'There's a few bars in the area which have closed down over the last few weeks and so we've sort of taken on those customers as well as our regulars recently. 'Things seemed to be getting better and then all of a sudden we're told last night that there's going to be big changes and we haven't really had time to prepare. 'People forget that closing at 10pm also has an impact on staff who might have wanted to pick up a few extra hours.' Some 2,350 pubs and restaurants ware affected by the measures, according to real estate adviser Altus Group.  The government is facing a growing backlash as the 'world class' testing system creaks under the pressure of rising cases. Mounting requests for swabs as children return to school and workers head back to their desks, together with logistical chaos, has caused havoc.  Testing tsar Baroness Dido Harding revealed yesterday that demand for Covid screening is up to four times the system's capacity.  And extraordinarily, she claimed that no-one had predicted the spike in demand - blaming the modelling from the government's own SAGE experts. Science committee chair Greg Clark told the Tory peer that her words were 'dispiriting', pointing out it was obvious that there would be a huge surge in demand.  A group of revellers enjoy a night out in Newcastle city last night, the last evening before lockdown measures came in Health Secretary Matt Hancock (pictured on Sky News today) pleaded with the public to 'come together to tackle this virus' as ministers consider imposing draconian restrictions for a fortnight in a 'circuit break' to stop the spread Dozens of drivers turned up at a test site to find there were no staff to swab them, on the day the Health Secretary announced tougher coronavirus measures for people in the north-east. People who had booked a test on Thursday at Doxford Park, an out-of-town business park in Sunderland, were told by the media they would not be tested, as there were no officials there to inform them. Some had been turned away on the approach to the centre by security guards, who told them the computers had crashed and to try again later. HGV mechanic Brad Cockburn, 28, made a 100-mile round trip from Bedale, North Yorkshire, only to find there were no staff, not even a tent or other infrastructure, at the site on the out-of-town business park. He said: 'There's no organisation, it's piss-poor performance as usual.' Rob Reid, a 58-year-old cash and carry manager from Sunderland, booked for 3.45pm, only to find there were no staff. He said: 'It annoys me. My concern is about my health and it comes across that the Government is not that concerned, when they are taking bookings on the NHS website and there's nobody here to do it.' However, deeper problems have been highlighted in the government's processes today, with claims the 'Lighthouse' lab centres are in turmoil.  Genomics scientist and inventor Phil Robinson told The Times they were poorly managed, running out of staff and failed to set up automatic processes before a second wave of infections.  He told the paper: 'Every part of the process was poor. The other ludicrous issue they have is they have 20 different types of tube coming into the lab. When you are running a high throughput lab it's only sensible to have one. Why they haven't standardised that I have no idea.' Lady Harding admitted yesterday that they were trying to automate far more of the processes.  Dozens of drivers turned up at a test site yesterday to find there were no staff to swab them, on the same day the tougher measures were announced. People who had booked a test on Thursday at Doxford Park, an out-of-town business park in Sunderland, were told by the media they would not be tested, as there were no officials there to inform them. Some had been turned away on the approach to the centre by security guards, who told them the computers had crashed and to try again later.   Around two million people live in the seven authorities, of which only three — Newcastle-upon-Tyne, Sunderland and Gateshead — were formally named on Public Health England's most up-to-date watchlist.  Council bosses argue they needed tougher measures across the region to prevent a full-blown lockdown and save lives.  Labour MPs in the North East welcomed the new measures outlined by Mr Hancock, while urging the Government to work better with local councils. In a joint letter to the minister, they said: 'We do (...) believe that this must be done in close collaboration with local authorities, who must have access to all appropriate information, data and support in order to make the best decisions for their areas.' Mr Hancock's announcement came after measures in the likes of Greater Manchester and Birmingham were put in place in a bid to address rising rates of infection. Meanwhile, at the Doxford Park site, drivers continued to turn up while others sat in the car park working out what to do next. HGV mechanic Brad Cockburn, 28, made a 100-mile round trip from Bedale, North Yorkshire, only to find there were no staff, not even a tent or other infrastructure, at the site on the out-of-town business park. He said: 'There's no organisation, it's piss-poor performance as usual.'  Boris Johnson on dealing with the 'inevitable' second wave Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg has died at age 87 People party in street in Nottingham despite second wave imminent Couple built natural swimming pool in back garden in two years Birmingham freshers enjoy night out in Birmingham city centre Daredevil climber spotted on Paris skyscraper bare hands Lord McColl says don't blame COVID rates on Government Horrifying moment toddlers are crushed by falling cabinet drawers Drinkers in Newcastle partake in messy night out prior to lockdown Paraglider pulls off perfect ground spiral manoeuvre Listen at an alligator inhaling helium in the name of science Fascinating new views of Jupiter taken by the Hubble Space Telescope Northumberland, North Tyneside, South Tyneside, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, Gateshead, Sunderland and County Durham are subject to new restrictions from today to curb the spread of the virus. The new restrictions are: People have also been advised to adhere to the following guidelines: The Health Secretary said they were necessary to stop the spread of the virus and prevent another lockdown. Rob Reid, a 58-year-old cash and carry manager from Sunderland, booked for 3.45pm, only to find there were no staff. He said: 'It annoys me. My concern is about my health and it comes across that the Government is not that concerned, when they are taking bookings on the NHS website and there's nobody here to do it.' Police said they will enforce the lockdown measures as a last resort. Superintendent Steve Long, of Durham Constabulary, said: 'The Government has announced that further local restrictions are necessary in addition to those already in place nationally. 'We would like to thank the vast majority of people who have taken personal responsibility, done the right thing and stuck to the guidance over the last few months. 'Our officers will continue to engage with the public, explain the new regulations and encourage people to act responsibly: only then will we move to enforcement as a last resort.'  Around 9.2million people across the UK are now in areas of intervention, including parts of Greater Manchester, Leicester and Scotland.  But neither Middlesbrough and Hartlepool in the North East, two other authorities officially named as a hotspot by Public Health England, were hit by the tough new measures.  The announcement comes amid fears thousands of students returning to university in the area could cause cases to rise even further.  Around 40,000 students are expected to flock back to Newcastle University in the coming days, as well as nearly 20,000 to Durham University.  Rising numbers of infections in London and Leeds have prompted warnings the cities may soon head in the same direction as the North East with additional restrictions.  And in North Yorkshire 'full emergency mode' has been declared after cases surged by 167 per cent in the first week of September.  Coronavirus cases have been increasing rapidly across NE England. Newcastle has recorded a sharp rise in its weekly infection rate, up from 51.2 cases for every 100,000 people to 64.1 in the seven days to September 13  KEY: Infection rate per 100,000. Are cases rising or falling? Have special measures been taken?  Bolton: 121.9 per 100,000. Rising. Intervention. Bradford: 72.2 per 100,000. Rising. Intervention. Oldham: 66.6 per 100,000. Rising. Intervention. Salford: 62.3 per 100,000. Rising. Intervention. Blackburn with Darwen: 61.8 per 100,000. Rising. Intervention. Preston: 59.9 per 100,000. Rising. Intervention. Pendle: 58 per 100,000. Falling. Intervention. Rochdale: 57.7 per 100,000. Rising. Intervention. Tameside: 56.8 per 100,000. Rising. Intervention. Manchester: 56.8 per 100,000. Rising. Intervention. Birmingham: 50.8 per 100,000. Rising. Intervention. Bury: 46.8 per 100,000. Rising. Intervention. Leicester: 43.1 per 100,000. Rising. Intervention. Kirklees: 36.9 per 100,000. Rising. Intervention. Solihull: 34.9 per 100,000. Rising. Intervention. Calderdale: 34.3 per 100,000. Rising. Intervention. Trafford: 31.3 per 100,000. Falling. Intervention. Sandwell: 22.6 per 100,000. Falling. Intervention. Rossendale: 80.4 per 100,000. Rising. Enhanced support. Burnley: 57.6 per 100,000. Rising. Enhanced support. South Tyneside: 50.6 per 100,000. Rising. Enhanced support. Leeds: 47.3 per 100,000. Rising. Enhanced support. Hyndburn: 42.1 per 100,000. Rising. Enhanced support. Gateshead: 40.5 per 100,000. Rising. Enhanced support. Sunderland: 32.4 per 100,000. Rising. Enhanced support. Newcastle-upon-Tyne: 28 per 100,000. Rising. Enhanced support. Stockport: 20.2 per 100,000. Rising. Enhanced support. Hertsmere: 53.7 per 100,000. Rising. Concern. Wirral: 43.6 per 100,000. Rising. Concern. Middlesbrough: 42 per 100,000. Rising. Concern. Hartlepool: 38.6 per 100,000. Rising. Concern. Corby: 35.3 per 100,000. Falling. Concern. Liverpool: 31.1 per 100,000. Rising. Concern. Sefton: 31.1 per 100,000. Rising. Concern. Knowsley: 30.1 per 100,000. Rising. Concern. Sheffield: 28.5 per 100,000. Rising. Concern. Peterborough: 27.9 per 100,000. Rising. Concern. Northampton: 25.8 per 100,000. Rising. Concern. Stoke-on-Trent: 25 per 100,000. Rising. Concern. St. Helens: 23.3 per 100,000. Rising. Concern. Great Yarmouth: 23.1 per 100,000. Falling. Concern. Norwich: 20.5 per 100,000. Rising. Concern. Swindon: 16.7 per 100,000. Falling. Concern. Breckland: 16.5 per 100,000. Falling. Concern. South Norfolk: 10.9 per 100,000. Rising. Concern. King's Lynn and West Norfolk: 4 per 100,000. Level. Concern. Broadland: 3.1 per 100,000. Rising. Concern. North Norfolk: 2.9 per 100,000. Rising. Concern. ENGLAND: 19.7 per 100,000. Rising.  Source: Public Health England The Prime Minister yesterday pleaded for Brits to 'save Christmas' by obeying his 'Rule of Six', warning that lockdown will only get stricter if the UK does not 'flatten the hump of the camel'.  Ministers batted away claims that chief medical officer Chris Whitty is pushing for a two-week national lockdown.  But it has now emerged that the prospect is real - albeit the restrictions would not be as draconian as those imposed in March. Leading experts have insisted the current spike in Covid-19 cases is nowhere near the scale of what was seen during the darkest days of the crisis in March and April, with one telling MailOnline: 'We are not near the stage of the peak.'   Meanwhile, the Government is expected to announce tighter restrictions on care home visits in areas with high numbers of coronavirus cases. Care homes in areas subject to local lockdowns may be advised to temporarily restrict visits in all but end-of-life situations, it is understood. For parts of the country where there is no local lockdown, but where community transmission is a cause for concern, an option officials are considering is advising that visits are restricted to one designated visitor per resident. The Government will set out further details of its social care action plan to help fight the spread of coronavirus over winter. The Financial Times reported that leading scientists advising the UK Government have proposed a two-week national lockdown in October to tackle the rising number of Covid-19 cases. The experts, from the Government's Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (Sage) and the Scientific Pandemic Influenza Group on Modelling (Spi-m), have suggested a lockdown to coincide with the October school half-term, it added. Newcastle City Council has sent proposals to the Department of Health for pubs and restaurants to close at 10pm and for people to be banned from socialising outside their bubble. London could be 'weeks away' from further restrictions as its infection rate has started to double every two weeks. Redbridge, in north-east London, has the highest rate of coronavirus infections at 38 per 100,000. It is followed by Hounslow, in the south-west, with 34.6 per 100,000, and Barking and Dagenham, also in the east, at 31.5 per 100,000.  Cllr Peter John, chairman of London councils, said he is 'massively worried' authorities will be forced to enact further restrictions as cases are 'only going in one direction and only going to speed up'. Kevin Fenton, PHE's director for London, has suggested that curfews could also be deployed in the capital. London boroughs have the power to order local lockdowns but, as people tend to move between local authority areas to work or study, it is not clear how this restriction would work.  A No10 spokesman said: 'Specifically in London, no restrictions are currently planned, the important thing is we ask people to remain vigilant and comply with the rule of six. 'We will always keep the transmission rate under review and any measures that we deem required'. Leeds has been told it has entered a 'critical phase' in transmission.  Council chief executive Tom Riordan yesterday said they are in a 'live situation' where cases are rising. Dozens of regions in the UK, including Greater Manchester and Leicester, have already been hit with local lockdowns.  North Yorkshire has been put into 'full emergency mode', meaning testing facilities have been redirected to areas of greatest need, care homes receiving extra support and the brakes put onto the reopening of social care day services. The North Yorkshire Local Resilience Forum - which includes emergency services, local authorities and the NHS - has labelled Selby, Harrogate and parts of Scarborough and Craven as places of concern owing to rising case numbers. Richard Flinton, the chair of North Yorkshire's resilience forum has warned they are seeing a 'worrying rise' in cases as he called on the whole county to 'act now' to stop the spread of the virus.  Mr Flinton said: 'We thank everybody again for their many sacrifices.  'However, as we have seen nationally and around the world, cases are rising again and the threat of the virus is a real and present danger.'  'We know how quickly infection rates can change and we are calling on the whole county to act now with us in response. 'Please show extra restraint and caution and to take additional actions above and beyond those required nationally to help us try to avoid another lockdown here.'    Boris Johnson on dealing with the 'inevitable' second wave Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg has died at age 87 People party in street in Nottingham despite second wave imminent Couple built natural swimming pool in back garden in two years Birmingham freshers enjoy night out in Birmingham city centre Daredevil climber spotted on Paris skyscraper bare hands Lord McColl says don't blame COVID rates on Government Horrifying moment toddlers are crushed by falling cabinet drawers Drinkers in Newcastle partake in messy night out prior to lockdown Paraglider pulls off perfect ground spiral manoeuvre Listen at an alligator inhaling helium in the name of science Pensioner tells of how he got scammed £330,000 of his life savings Government sources have told The Telegraph that Boris Johnson is desperate to tackle rising cases through placing a curfew on the hospitality sector. Downing Street officials insisted all options were still be on table, despite warnings that ordering pubs to close early — like has been done in Bolton — would be 'devastating'.  The action comes amid warnings that schools could be forced to close by default in the coming weeks because of a massive shortage of tests across the UK.  'Lockdown is the only thing that we know works, to be frank,' one government science adviser told ITV. The dire prospect has been raised amid fears that the disease is on the verge of spiralling out of control again. Although cases have spiked to nearly 4,000 a day, it had been mainly among younger people, who are less likely to be badly affected.  But now Covid-19 cases are soaring among middle-aged people in England and have risen by upwards of 90 per cent in a fortnight as the outbreak continues to grow. Public Health England (PHE) data reveals 23.4 cases are now diagnosed for every 100,000 people aged between 40 and 49 — up from 12.4 at the end of August. And coronavirus infection rates have nearly doubled in just a week for people in their fifties, jumping from 10.9 to 20.  The 'Rule of Six' imposed by Boris Johnson on Monday makes it illegal to have larger gatherings, although in Scotland and Wales children under 12 do not need to be counted in the numbers.  Ministers have suggested they are following the example of Belgium, where a surge appears to have been tackled using tight limits on gatherings and curfews.  A senior member of the government told ITV's Robert Peston that there was 'no possibility of us waiting for the death rate to rise before we act'. Passengers commute on the busy London underground London's infection rate is doubling every two weeks, the chair of the capital's councils has warned. Sounding a grim note Cllr Peter John told Times Radio he was 'massively worried' about further restrictions being hiked on the city in the coming weeks. 'We are seeing in London at the moment infection rates doubling every fortnight,' he said. 'It is only going in one direction and only going to speed up.' He also warned that testing rates for London had been cut by a fifth, leaving authorities less able to stop emerging infection spikes. It comes amid mounting concerns the return of more than half a million students could cause an additional spike in infections. A No10 spokesman told the Sun: 'Specifically in London, no restrictions are currently planned, the important thing is we ask people to remain vigilant and comply with the rule of six. 'We will always keep the transmission rate under review and any measures that we deem required'. Government data shows the number of cases has been rising in the capital since late July, but began to surge upwards at the end of August.  The largest number of cases has been recorded in those aged 25 to 29, followed by 30 to 34-year-olds. They added that the government will reassess whether the 'Rule of Six' has been enough to control the situation in fortnight - but there is a widespread view that schools should not be shut again. A leading scientific advisor reportedly said: 'I think that if we want to keep schools open, we probably have to give serious consideration to a wide range of other measures to stop a major second wave. 'And we have to think about doing that right now - which we are starting to do.' Mr Johnson said he understood a negative test had been returned for Sir Keir's child, adding: 'I don't know why he is not here.' The Labour leader was advised to self-isolate on Monday while awaiting the result of a test for a member of his household who showed possible symptoms of Covid-19. Less than half an hour before PMQs was due to begin, Sir Keir said he was 'very pleased and relieved that the test result for one of my children came back negative this morning'. A decision had been made on Tuesday for his deputy, Ms Rayner, to take his place at the question session. The possibility of a harsher crackdown comes despite a major Tory backlash at the restrictions on everyday life.  Justice Secretary Robert Buckland yesterday denied that the 'rule of six' would effectively cancel Christmas, following criticisms from a source close to the Archbishop of Canterbury about the social restrictions imposed this week to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Speaking to BBC Radio 4's Today programme, the Cabinet minister said: 'Archbishop Justin (Welby) makes an important contribution to this debate and he is right to point to the huge spiritual and social significance of Christmas.  'I don't think any of us in Government want to be Oliver Cromwell-esque about this - we want to see families celebrate Christmas in a safe and happy way and we want to see our churches and indeed our other places of worship joining in that celebration.'  Mr Buckland added: 'We are not going to cancel Christmas but the 'rule of six' is something that is clear and important and I do think we've committed to that and we need to stick to it.'  Health Secretary Matt Hancock has batted away furious demands for young children to be exempted from the rules in England to save Christmas.  He was repeatedly pressed on the 'unfair and inflexible' restrictions as he made a statement in the Commons. But while Mr Hancock insisted he understood the 'impact' the rules were having, he said 'simplicity' was crucial for them to be effective. Senior Conservatives lined up to urge the government to copy the Scottish and Welsh administrations, which have said that children aged under 12 do not count towards the limit on gatherings. Lockdowns are imposed on local areas in response to a rise in infections, putting people's lives at risk. There's no specific infection rate threshold after which a local lockdown is triggered, a Public Health England spokesman said, but rather it is a decision taken by local authorities and government based on advice from health professionals. The professionals watch measures including the rate of change in infection rate, number of cases, level of demand for A&E, and which demographic has the most infections, to advise when and if further restrictions should be imposed. The 'nuanced' and 'bespoke' approach means restrictions are re-imposed in regions with differing numbers of cases per 100,000. Home Secretary Priti Patel warned on Tuesday that two families bumping into each other on the street would be breaking the new law. She said more than half-a-dozen people stopping to chat after accidentally meeting up would constitute 'mingling'. Lawyers questioned whether that was the case - but No10 offered backing, saying: 'You can expect the police to ask you to disperse.'  Ms Patel also said she would report her own neighbours for any behaviour she believed was 'inappropriate' and risked spreading the virus.  The comments came as police complained that they had been left in the dark on how to enforce the tough restrictions, with no guidance and widespread anger among the public.    The most up-to-date PHE data, which was released on Friday, clearly shows cases are spiralling across every age group. People in their twenties — who aren't as vulnerable to the disease and are likely to escape death or serious illness — are driving the spike with an infection rate of 46, which has doubled in the last three weeks  Public Health England (PHE) data reveals 23.4 cases are now diagnosed for every 100,000 people aged between 40 and 49 — up from 12.4 at the end of August. And coronavirus infection rates have nearly doubled in just a week for people in their fifties, jumping from 10.9 to 20  People suffering from coronavirus symptoms should get a test within five days of symptoms appearing, the NHS says.  Its advice page says anyone suffering from the symptoms - a high temperature, continuous cough and loss of their sense of taste or smell - to get tested as soon as they can.  'If you have symptoms, get a test as soon as possible,' they said. 'You need to get the test done in the first five days of having symptoms'. But amid England's mounting testing fiasco - with people in virus hotspots unable to access any swabs - a message has been posted saying those unable to get tested should 'try again in a few hours'. Who should get tested for coronavirus? The NHS says that anyone who develops symptoms of coronavirus should get a test. These are: They add that a select group of other people will also be able to access testing. These are people who:  Who should not get a coronavirus test? Matt Hancock has claimed up to one-in-four tests are being given out to people who are not eligible for them. He said he has heard stories of whole schools applying for them after one case of coronavirus was recorded there, and of people getting them because they are going on holiday. This is not what the testing system has been designed for, he said. and it means that people who need a test cannot get one.  Source: NHS   But he urged people without symptoms to stay away from testing centres – although he acknowledged the reasons why they may want to find out if they had Covid-19. 'What has happened is demand has massively accelerated just in the last couple of weeks,' he told MPs.  Professor Andrew Hayward, one of the government's SAGE experts, said around half a million people every day could be expected to display symptoms similar to coroanvirus at this time of year, even before the pandemic appeared. That would be far above the government's current claimed testing capacity of around 375,000 - although they have never carried out that many in a single day.  Prof Hayward, director of University College London's Institute of Epidemiology & Health, said: 'The background to this of course is that we would expect the demand and the capacity to need to rise quite rapidly over the autumn and winter as the number of people who develop symptoms that could be Covid increase. 'Some of our research has shown that at least in the winter, you would expect about half a million people a day to develop symptoms that are typical of Covid – and that would be in a winter when there was no Covid – so you can see that the capacity requirements will have to increase dramatically if we are going to keep up.'  Hundreds of schools have been partially or completely closed because of coronavirus cases - both proven and suspected - leading to fears of a domino effect, resulting in parents not being able to go to work and the return of empty offices. More than one in 10 children were not in classes last Thursday, figures show, amid fears the growing number of pupils and staff awaiting tests could cripple parent confidence in getting their children back to school. It comes after teachers held a protest outside the Department for Education, arguing that the lack of tests, and the inability of staff, pupils and parents to get to the front of the queue, is stopping schools returning to normal. One told the i that they had been unable to book a test for their daughter on Sunday either online or on the phone despite trying on an hourly basis.  Her efforts involved driving to a local test centre, which proved to be closed, and then to Gatwick, where there were no queues but she was turned away as for not having booked. The public had been told to seek tests 'if in doubt'. But checks by the Mail found that 46 of the 49 virus hotspots – including Bolton, Bradford and Oldham – had no swabs to offer.  Preston, one of the three areas  providing tests said they were not available until January – and 22 miles away. There have been reports that Mr Hancock is considering making GPs 'gatekeepers' for the system.  However, that could put surgeries under massive strain, with complaints that appointment are already extremely difficult to access in many areas.  Long queues were seen outside testing centres yesterday, involving many desperate people who had failed to get an online appointment but turned up anyway.  Lines formed in Southend – but in a sign of the general chaos – other test centres such as in Leeds were nearly empty.  Dr Patrick Roach, general secretary of the NASUWT teaching union, has called on the Government to prioritise the education sector for the allocation of tests. In a letter to the schools minister, Dr Roach said the union had heard of approximately 600 pupils being told to self-isolate in Bury and the situation was 'increasingly out of control'. 'Teachers, support staff and children and young people are unable to access tests where they have Covid-19 symptoms,' he wrote. 'Employers are struggling to deal with the implications and consequences.' He added: 'We have reports that schools are unable to cope with a situation that is becoming increasingly out of control.' The founder of Oasis Community Learning, which is responsible for 31,500 children at 52 academies across England, said 1,200 pupils had been sent home over the first six days of the new school year. Writing in The Sun, Steve Chalke added: 'The reason is either pupils or teachers have symptoms and can't return until they get a negative test result.'    One MP said her constituents in Twickenham, south-west London, had been told to travel to Aberdeen to book a test.  Munira Wilson, Lib Dem health spokesman, said: 'We were promised a world-beating test and trace system but what we have at the moment is an utter shambles.' Mr Johnson swiped at Keir Starmer for failing to face him at PMQs today after the Labour leader revealed one of his children has tested negative for coronavirus. The Labour leader said he was 'pleased and relieved' to be out of self-isolation after two days waiting for the result. However, he skipped the showdown in the Commons this lunchtime, with deputy Angela Rayner standing in. She raised the case of 'Keir' at the despatch box, saying he had needed to miss work because he had not received the result of a test in time. But Mr Johnson pointed out that Sir Keir was now out of quarantine. 'I don't know quite why he is not here.' The premier defended the shambolic testing arrangements, despite warnings that schools are on the brink of becoming 'unsustainable' due to delays. 'Eighty-nine per cent of those that have in person tests get (results) the next day,' Mr Johnson said. 'We are working very fast to turn around all the test requests that we get.'  Struggling to explain the causes of the problems, Mr Johnson said: 'The British people, quite understandably, are responding to that system, with a huge, huge surge in demand.' He insisted it was 'important that everybody follows the guidance about when they should be getting a test'. Ms Rayner called on the Prime Minister to 'get some skates on' in delivering testing and PPE to care homes ahead of winter. 'The Prime Minister has put his faith in Operation Moonshot, but meanwhile on planet Earth there are no NHS tests available for several high-infection areas,' she said. She asked: 'Can the Prime Minister confirm yes or no, do all care homes in this country have weekly tests?' Mr Johnson replied: 'Yes, to the best of my knowledge care homes in this country… should get weekly tests for all staff members and tests every 28 days for those who are in the care homes, the residents in the care homes.' The premier also complained that Labour was 'carping from the sidelines' while the government tried to deal with 'one of the most difficult dilemmas' ever faced by any administration.  Appearing before the education select committee today, Gavin Williamson revealed he had met the government's Test & Trace tsar Baroness Harding this week to insist there must be 'swift' screening available for schools. The most up-to-date PHE data, which was released on Friday, clearly shows cases are spiralling across every age group. People in their twenties — who aren't as vulnerable to the disease and are likely to escape death or serious illness — are driving the spike with an infection rate of 46, which has doubled in the last three weeks  Covid-19 cases are soaring among middle-aged people in England and have risen by upwards of 90 per cent in a fortnight as the outbreak continues to grow, official figures show. Public Health England (PHE) data reveals 23.4 cases are now diagnosed for every 100,000 people aged between 40 and 49 — up from 12.4 at the end of August. And coronavirus infection rates have nearly doubled in just a week for people in their fifties, jumping from 10.9 to 20. The most up-to-date PHE data, which was released on Friday, clearly shows cases are increasing across every age group. People in their twenties — who aren't as vulnerable to the disease and are likely to escape death or serious illness — are driving the spike with an infection rate of 46, which has doubled in three weeks. Fears of a second wave are growing as the number of Britons being diagnosed with Covid-19 each day has topped 3,000 for the first time since May. Ministers have also been spooked by spiralling outbreaks in Spain and France and rising hospital admissions on the continent. Hospital admissions — another way of measuring the severity of the pandemic — have doubled in England over the past nine days. More than 150 newly-infected patients required NHS treatment on Sunday, up from a rolling seven-day average of 52 on the last day of August.   'We've always been conscious that with children coming back into schools there was going to be a situation where people would need more access to testing. That is why we ensured those deliveries of tests to every school in England. That is why this morning we opened the ordering system, for schools to be able to order new tests, for them to be able to get those directly from the NHS,' he said. Mr Williamson said he had stressed to Lady Harding that testing for schools must be a 'priority'. 'Just this week I met with baroness Harding from test and trace and the NHS, highlighting some concerns that schools have had in terms of the turnaround and to ensure that teachers are able to get tested as swiftly as possible, and they are able to be in a position to be back to teaching at the earliest possible stage.' Mr Williamson dodged questions over whether the government could guarantee testing results for schools within 48 hours, but added: 'The reason I had my meeting with Baroness Harding, as you can imagine, is to continue to emphasise the importance and the priority that we have to put on all our schools and education settings, about how vital it is that we always ensure there is swift testing available.' Committee chairman Robert Halfon told BBC Radio 4's World at One later that he had been told schools would be a priority under Mr Hancock's new scheme. 'As I understand it, schools will be on the priority list,' Mr Halfon told the programme. Department for Education sources said they had little control over the provision for schools, suggesting it was a 'problem in the labs'. 'We don't run testing. We don't oversee testing. It is a DHSC thing,' one source said. An ally of Mr Williamson told MailOnline they had doubts about whether schools were the main part of the extra demand, pointing out that 1.6million children went back in June and July and 'we didn't see any of this'. The ally added: 'There is definitely frustration there.'  Ministers first faced a crisis over testing early on in the first wave of Covid when a campaign by the Mail led to Mr Hancock vowing to deliver 100,000 tests a day. That pledge was later raised to 200,000, then 500,000 by the end of October and now four million by next February under the ambitious 'Operation Moonshot'. However, the system has been thrown back into chaos in recent days because demand for tests has massively increased, overwhelming laboratories. The surge has resulted from a rise in daily cases, the return of schools, the rolling-out of regular swabs to care homes and an increase in outbreaks. There have also been rumours of logistical problems at laboratories.  As a result, there has been a deluge of complaints that people cannot access tests locally or that they have to wait too long to find out if they are positive or negative. Schools have been closed while teachers wait for results on sick pupils. NHS leaders warn of a crisis in hospitals, with medics forced to stay away from work and operations cancelled. Figures today showed that, including antibody and surveillance screening, 221,192 tests were carried out across the UK in the previous 24 hours. That was down from 227,075 yesterday, 231,969 on Monday and from 250,839 on Sunday. The last time it was lower was September 9, when just 209,609 were conducted. However, the government has not published a figure for the overall capacity since September 10, when it was claimed to be 374,917. The Department of Health has refused to reveal how many people are trying to get swabs. The number of people actually getting tested has gone up by 23 per cent since the end of August while capacity has increased by 12 per cent - although it is now not known. Sodexo, which runs the centres, has posted job adverts for people to staff the drive- and walk-in sites as the UK scrambles to prepare for surging numbers of cases as infections are now on the rise in people of all age groups in England. Labour MPs have called the testing fiasco a 'farce' and 'unacceptable', while scientists admit they are seriously concerned that the Government hasn't prepared for what they've known for months would eventually happen. Professor Alan McNally, a geneticist at the University of Birmingham who helped set up a Government lab in Milton Keynes, told BBC Breakfast yesterday there were 'clearly underlying issues which nobody wants to tell us about'. He said: 'I think there is a surge in demand [and] I think our stated capacity is very different from actually how many tests can be run in a given day.'    Dr Joshua Moon, from the University of Sussex Business School, added: 'One of the deeper issues is why we are seeing an acute shortage when total tests per day currently sit at two thirds of the government's claimed testing capacity.  'I am particularly worried about why the claimed capacity was so much higher than it actually was.  'Without proper understanding of the system's capacity, there is a fundamental weakness in ability to plan for the future.' In a round of broadcast interviews this morning, Justice Secretary Robert Buckland said testing capacity was 'ramping up' to deal with the demand. He said Mr Hancock would put forward the 'priority' list 'in the next few days'.  Speaking to Sky News, Mr Buckland said: 'I'm not shying away from the current issue but what I'm trying to explain is that rather than us sitting back and pretending all is well, we have accepted the scale of the challenge, we're ramping up the test centres, we have increased laboratory capacity, new labs coming on-stream so we can get that quick turnaround.' He added: 'The fact the Government kept on saying about the dangers of a second wave, at all times the Prime Minister, all of us, were absolutely focused on the dangers of the second wave – we have seen what's happening in France. 'We absolutely are onto this in terms of understanding that through the autumn, if we are to get the balance between getting the economy back on track and getting children into school, then all of us now have a special responsibility to follow all those guidelines and do whatever it takes to beat this virus.' The testing meltdown has come in the context of a spike in coronavirus cases, with fears that the situation is on the verge of spiralling out of control again.   Britons could face an even tougher lockdown within two weeks unless the Rule of Six brings down coronavirus cases, it was claimed today. Ministers and government officials insist they are ready to take more draconian steps to stop the spread, despite a wave of criticism. Options on the table could range from curfews to closing pubs - although there is a determination that schools will stay open.    Local areas where cases are above 20 per 100,000 Bolton 204.1 (587), 152.0 (437) Oadby and Wigston 136.8 (78), 52.6 (30) Hyndburn 132.0 (107), 64.2 (52) Preston 125.8 (180), 75.5 (108) Burnley 124.8 (111), 70.9 (63) Blackburn with Darwen 120.2 (180), 73.5 (110) Oldham 114.7 (272), 66.6 (158) Liverpool 106.4 (530), 56.8 (283) Tameside 105.1 (238), 75.1 (170) Warrington 104.8 (220), 57.6 (121) Knowsley 102.7 (155), 51.0 (77) St Helens 101.3 (183), 50.4 (91) Rossendale 96.5 (69), 44.8 (32) Bradford 93.6 (505), 82.8 (447) South Tyneside 93.4 (141), 60.9 (92) Wirral 91.7 (297), 66.0 (214) Rochdale 90.8 (202), 68.8 (153) Leicester 89.8 (318), 60.7 (215) Salford 89.6 (232), 75.3 (195) Bury 85.9 (164), 70.2 (134) Birmingham 83.4 (952), 80.9 (924) Sunderland 82.1 (228), 73.5 (204) Gateshead 81.7 (165), 58.4 (118) Manchester 79.9 (442), 68.7 (380) Leeds 72.9 (578), 66.1 (524) Halton 72.6 (94), 28.6 (37) Pendle 71.7 (66), 58.6 (54) Kirklees 70.7 (311), 42.7 (188) Solihull 68.4 (148), 64.7 (140) Newcastle upon Tyne 64.1 (194), 51.2 (155) Blaby 63.0 (64), 53.2 (54) Sandwell 62.4 (205), 41.7 (137) Calderdale 58.6 (124), 45.4 (96) Wolverhampton 55.4 (146), 41.4 (109) Barrow-in-Furness 53.7 (36), 29.8 (20) Sefton 52.5 (145), 37.3 (103) Hartlepool 52.3 (49), 52.3 (49) Rugby 51.4 (56), 28.5 (31) Selby 49.7 (45), 47.5 (43) Wyre 49.1 (55), 23.2 (26) South Ribble 48.7 (54), 39.7 (44) Sheffield 47.7 (279), 38.1 (223) North Tyneside 46.7 (97), 37.5 (78) Wigan 45.3 (149), 37.7 (124) Stockport 45.0 (132), 32.7 (96) Chorley 44.8 (53), 20.3 (24) Spelthorne 44.1 (44), 31.0 (31) Windsor and Maidenhead 43.6 (66), 20.5 (31) High Peak 43.2 (40), 25.9 (24) Trafford 43.0 (102), 32.9 (78) Corby 41.5 (30), 47.1 (34) Rotherham 41.4 (110), 30.1 (80) St Albans 39.7 (59), 20.9 (31) Charnwood 38.7 (72), 20.4 (38) Craven 38.5 (22), 26.3 (15) Redbridge 38.3 (117), 35.4 (108) Northampton 38.3 (86), 33.4 (75) Scarborough 37.7 (41), 39.5 (43) County Durham 37.4 (198), 32.4 (172) Bolsover 37.2 (30), 18.6 (15) Fylde 37.1 (30), 17.3 (14) Hounslow 36.8 (100), 30.2 (82) Kettering 36.4 (37), 28.5 (29) Middlesbrough 36.2 (51), 51.8 (73) Walsall 36.1 (103), 25.2 (72) Broxtowe 36.0 (41), 40.3 (46) Mansfield 34.8 (38), 26.5 (29) Stevenage 34.2 (30), 17.1 (15) Coventry 33.4 (124), 27.5 (102) Wakefield 33.0 (115), 25.3 (88) Ashfield 32.8 (42), 28.9 (37) Cannock Chase 32.8 (33), 12.9 (13) Barking and Dagenham 32.4 (69), 30.1 (64) Blackpool 32.3 (45), 22.9 (32) Hambleton 31.7 (29), 10.9 (10) Hertsmere 31.5 (33), 49.6 (52) York 30.9 (65), 14.2 (30) West Lancashire 30.6 (35), 38.5 (44) Amber Valley 30.4 (39), 14.0 (18) Stockton-on-Tees 30.4 (60), 24.3 (48) Enfield 30.3 (101), 23.4 (78) South Staffordshire 30.2 (34), 24.0 (27) Wellingborough 30.1 (24), 18.8 (15) Nottingham 30.0 (100), 31.8 (106) Cheshire West and Chester 30.0 (103), 19.8 (68) Castle Point 29.9 (27), 16.6 (15) Harborough 29.8 (28), 20.3 (19) Havering 29.7 (77), 33.5 (87) North East Derbyshire 29.6 (30), 17.7 (18) Welwyn Hatfield 29.3 (36), 18.7 (23) Stoke-on-Trent 29.3 (75), 30.0 (77) Harrogate 29.2 (47), 34.8 (56) Ealing 29.0 (99), 20.8 (71) Tamworth 28.7 (22), 20.9 (16) Hammersmith and Fulham 28.6 (53), 28.6 (53) Hackney and City of London 28.5 (83), 19.9 (58) Bromsgrove 28.0 (28), 29.0 (29) Runnymede 28.0 (25), 15.7 (14) Malvern Hills 28.0 (22), 30.5 (24) Luton 27.7 (59), 26.3 (56) Dudley 27.4 (88), 24.6 (79) Newham 27.2 (96), 30.6 (108) Peterborough 26.2 (53), 26.2 (53) Northumberland 25.7 (83), 21.1 (68) Chesterfield 25.7 (27), 20.0 (21) Haringey 25.7 (69), 25.3 (68) Oxford 25.6 (39), 23.6 (36) Barnsley 25.5 (63), 32.8 (81) Wandsworth 25.5 (84), 24.6 (81) Tower Hamlets 25.3 (82), 28.6 (93) Rushcliffe 25.2 (30), 23.5 (28) North Lincolnshire 25.0 (43), 11.0 (19) Hinckley and Bosworth 24.7 (28), 11.5 (13) Harrow 24.7 (62), 26.3 (66) Darlington 24.3 (26), 14.0 (15) Kensington and Chelsea 24.3 (38), 33.9 (53) Waltham Forest 23.8 (66), 16.2 (45) Cheshire East 23.7 (91), 23.9 (92) Brent 23.3 (77), 18.2 (60) Lancaster 23.3 (34), 14.4 (21) Lincoln 23.2 (23), 44.3 (44) West Lindsey 23.0 (22), 16.7 (16) Camden 23.0 (62), 13.3 (36) Brighton and Hove 22.7 (66), 13.1 (38) East Staffordshire 22.5 (27), 35.1 (42) Slough 22.1 (33), 21.4 (32) Doncaster 21.8 (68), 11.2 (35) Lambeth 21.8 (71), 27.0 (88) Adur 21.8 (14), 15.6 (10) South Kesteven 21.8 (31), 14.0 (20) Newcastle-under-Lyme 21.6 (28), 23.9 (31) Horsham 21.6 (31), 9.0 (13) East Riding of Yorkshire 21.4 (73), 10.8 (37) North Kesteven 21.4 (25), 26.5 (31) Bedford 21.4 (37), 19.0 (33) Bracknell Forest 21.2 (26), 19.6 (24) Barnet 21.0 (83), 26.0 (103) Erewash 20.8 (24), 14.7 (17) Nuneaton and Bedworth 20.8 (27), 13.9 (18) Wyre Forest 20.7 (21), 10.9 (11) Southwark 20.7 (66), 21.0 (67) Stafford 20.4 (28), 21.1 (29) Derby 20.2 (52), 16.3 (42) Wychavon 20.1 (26), 20.9 (27) South Bucks 20.0 (14), 15.7 (11) Local areas where cases are below 20 per 100,000 Ribble Valley 19.7 (12), 14.8 (9) South Derbyshire 19.6 (21), 22.4 (24) Tandridge 19.3 (17), 13.6 (12) Herefordshire 19.2 (37), 12.4 (24) Richmond upon Thames 19.2 (38), 20.2 (40) Redcar and Cleveland 19.0 (26), 29.9 (41) Gedling 18.7 (22), 16.1 (19) Dartford 18.6 (21), 5.3 (6) Watford 18.6 (18), 26.9 (26) Hillingdon 18.6 (57), 22.8 (70) Lichfield 18.1 (19), 16.2 (17) Greenwich 18.1 (52), 12.2 (35) Rushmoor 18.0 (17), 11.6 (11) Lewisham 17.7 (54), 18.3 (56) Melton 17.6 (9), 31.2 (16) Plymouth 17.6 (46), 13.0 (34) Reigate and Banstead 17.5 (26), 16.1 (24) Kingston upon Thames 17.5 (31), 17.5 (31) Bournemouth, Christchurch and Poole 17.2 (68), 17.7 (70) Worthing 17.2 (19), 29.8 (33) Newark and Sherwood 17.2 (21), 16.3 (20) Merton 16.9 (35), 15.0 (31) Islington 16.9 (41), 23.1 (56) West Suffolk 16.8 (30), 15.6 (28) Richmondshire 16.8 (9), 7.4 (4) Westminster 16.5 (43), 22.6 (59) Daventry 16.3 (14), 17.5 (15) Three Rivers 16.1 (15), 18.2 (17) East Northamptonshire 15.9 (15), 23.3 (22) Warwick 15.3 (22), 15.3 (22) Redditch 15.2 (13), 11.7 (10) Croydon 15.0 (58), 19.1 (74) Basildon 15.0 (28), 16.6 (31) Woking 14.9 (15), 17.9 (18) Southend-on-Sea 14.7 (27), 13.7 (25) South Gloucestershire 14.7 (42), 13.3 (38) Huntingdonshire 14.6 (26), 3.9 (7) Broxbourne 14.4 (14), 16.4 (16) Brentwood 14.3 (11), 15.6 (12) North Hertfordshire 14.2 (19), 18.0 (24) Bromley 14.1 (47), 16.5 (55) Cherwell 14.0 (21), 10.6 (16) Elmbridge 13.9 (19), 24.9 (34) Worcester 13.8 (14), 12.8 (13) South Holland 13.7 (13), 3.2 (3) Chiltern 13.6 (13), 20.8 (20) Shropshire 13.3 (43), 11.5 (37) Allerdale 13.3 (13), 12.3 (12) Staffordshire Moorlands 13.2 (13), 20.3 (20) Copeland 13.2 (9), 2.9 (2) Bristol 13.2 (61), 19.6 (91) Eden 13.1 (7), 11.3 (6) Great Yarmouth 13.1 (13), 17.1 (17) Mendip 13.0 (15), 12.1 (14) Epping Forest 12.9 (17), 12.1 (16) Cheltenham 12.9 (15), 12.0 (14) Bexley 12.9 (32), 10.5 (26) Breckland 12.9 (18), 11.4 (16) Rochford 12.6 (11), 6.9 (6) Rutland 12.5 (5), 5.0 (2) Central Bedfordshire 12.5 (36), 10.7 (31) Crawley 12.5 (14), 7.1 (8) Telford and Wrekin 12.2 (22), 15.0 (27) Portsmouth 12.1 (26), 10.7 (23) North Somerset 12.1 (26), 26.5 (57) East Lindsey 12.0 (17), 7.8 (11) Hastings 11.9 (11), 13.0 (12) Fenland 11.8 (12), 2.9 (3) South Northamptonshire 11.6 (11), 12.7 (12) Sutton 11.6 (24), 13.6 (28) Mole Valley 11.5 (10), 11.5 (10) Wycombe 11.5 (20), 15.5 (27) South Lakeland 11.4 (12), 17.1 (18) Guildford 11.4 (17), 14.1 (21) Tonbridge and Malling 11.4 (15), 6.1 (8) Cambridge 11.2 (14), 16.0 (20) Epsom and Ewell 11.2 (9), 22.3 (18) Milton Keynes 11.1 (30), 14.1 (38) Bassetlaw 11.1 (13), 13.6 (16) Thurrock 10.9 (19), 11.5 (20) Hull 10.8 (28), 10.0 (26) Chichester 10.7 (13), 14.0 (17) North Warwickshire 10.7 (7), 19.9 (13) Norwich 10.7 (15), 12.8 (18) Wokingham 10.5 (18), 10.5 (18) Forest of Dean 10.4 (9), 5.8 (5) Swindon 10.4 (23), 16.2 (36) Havant 10.3 (13), 3.2 (4) Gravesham 10.3 (11), 10.3 (11) Stratford-on-Avon 10.0 (13), 14.6 (19) Boston 10.0 (7), 5.7 (4) West Oxfordshire 9.9 (11), 17.2 (19) Chelmsford 9.5 (17), 11.8 (21) Test Valley 9.5 (12), 26.9 (34) Southampton 9.5 (24), 8.3 (21) Fareham 9.5 (11), 11.2 (13) New Forest 9.4 (17), 25.0 (45) South Cambridgeshire 9.4 (15), 11.3 (18) Swale 9.3 (14), 19.3 (29) Reading 9.3 (15), 21.0 (34) Tunbridge Wells 9.3 (11), 20.2 (24) Harlow 9.2 (8), 5.7 (5) Exeter 9.1 (12), 10.7 (14) Ryedale 9.0 (5), 12.6 (7) Aylesbury Vale 9.0 (18), 7.5 (15) Surrey Heath 9.0 (8), 17.9 (16) Cornwall and Isles of Scilly 8.9 (51), 5.8 (33) Vale of White Horse 8.8 (12), 13.2 (18) Waverley 8.7 (11), 18.2 (23) East Hertfordshire 8.7 (13), 9.3 (14) Mid Sussex 8.6 (13), 13.9 (21) Tewkesbury 8.4 (8), 6.3 (6) East Suffolk 8.4 (21), 6.4 (16) Dacorum 8.4 (13), 14.9 (23) Stroud 8.3 (10), 9.2 (11) Sevenoaks 8.3 (10), 13.3 (16) Wiltshire 8.2 (41), 19.0 (95) Cotswold 7.8 (7), 8.9 (8) Thanet 7.8 (11), 2.8 (4) Gloucester 7.7 (10), 9.3 (12) Somerset West and Taunton 7.7 (12), 9.0 (14) North East Lincolnshire 7.5 (12), 9.4 (15) Wealden 7.4 (12), 14.2 (23) Torridge 7.3 (5), 8.8 (6) Sedgemoor 7.3 (9), 7.3 (9) Ipswich 7.3 (10), 8.0 (11) South Norfolk 7.1 (10), 7.1 (10) Derbyshire Dales 6.9 (5), 6.9 (5) Broadland 6.9 (9), 10.7 (14) Arun 6.8 (11), 16.8 (27) North West Leicestershire 6.8 (7), 15.4 (16) Eastbourne 6.7 (7), 26.0 (27) Mid Suffolk 6.7 (7), 6.7 (7) Uttlesford 6.6 (6), 26.3 (24) Medway 6.5 (18), 8.3 (23) Carlisle 6.4 (7), 12.0 (13) Winchester 6.4 (8), 5.6 (7) Bath and North East Somerset 6.2 (12), 17.6 (34) Hart 6.2 (6), 7.2 (7) Colchester 6.2 (12), 6.7 (13) Dorset 6.1 (23), 10.3 (39) King's Lynn and West Norfolk 5.9 (9), 7.3 (11) Gosport 5.9 (5), 3.5 (3) Maidstone 5.8 (10), 9.3 (16) West Berkshire 5.7 (9), 9.5 (15) South Oxfordshire 5.6 (8), 12.7 (18) East Devon 5.5 (8), 12.3 (18) Folkestone and Hythe 5.3 (6), 9.7 (11) Teignbridge 5.2 (7), 6.7 (9) North Devon 5.1 (5), 10.3 (10) Basingstoke and Deane 5.1 (9), 6.8 (12) Isle of Wight 4.9 (7), 6.3 (9) East Hampshire 4.9 (6), 13.1 (16) Lewes 4.8 (5), 11.6 (12) Canterbury 4.8 (8), 9.1 (15) Eastleigh 4.5 (6), 6.7 (9) Rother 4.2 (4), 16.7 (16) Braintree 3.9 (6), 7.2 (11) Mid Devon 3.6 (3), 7.3 (6) South Somerset 3.6 (6), 8.9 (15) Maldon 3.1 (2), 4.6 (3) Ashford 3.1 (4), 5.4 (7) Tendring 2.7 (4), 2.0 (3) Dover 2.5 (3), 14.4 (17) South Hams 2.3 (2), 10.3 (9) East Cambridgeshire 2.2 (2), 2.2 (2) Babergh 2.2 (2), 10.9 (10) West Devon 1.8 (1), 3.6 (2) North Norfolk 1.0 (1), 3.8 (4) Torbay 0.7 (1), 10.3 (14)   Boris Johnson on dealing with the 'inevitable' second wave Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg has died at age 87 People party in street in Nottingham despite second wave imminent Couple built natural swimming pool in back garden in two years Birmingham freshers enjoy night out in Birmingham city centre Daredevil climber spotted on Paris skyscraper bare hands Lord McColl says don't blame COVID rates on Government Horrifying moment toddlers are crushed by falling cabinet drawers Drinkers in Newcastle partake in messy night out prior to lockdown Paraglider pulls off perfect ground spiral manoeuvre Listen at an alligator inhaling helium in the name of science Joan Collins claims late sister sent her sign as house had power cut
England's Covid-19 outbreak has DOUBLED in a week, official stats show Rising hospitalisations among people with coronavirus could mean admissions hit levels not seen since April next month, current trends show as Matt Hancock warned patient numbers are doubling every eight days. Another 4,322 people have been diagnosed with Covid-19, the Government announced today in the highest one-day rise since May 8, as a raft of worrying statistics revealed the Covid-19 crisis appears to be rebounding.  Data from the Office for National Statistics suggests 6,000 people are catching the life-threatening illness every day in England while hospital admissions have doubled in a week and government scientists warn the R rate could now be as high as 1.4. The Health Secretary has warned another blanket national lockdown was the 'last line of defence' but said now is a 'big moment for the country'.  Government data shows 183 newly-infected Covid-19 patients were admitted to hospitals in England on Wednesday, compared to just 84 eight days ago and just 38 on August 30. It means 160 patients are needing NHS care each day, on average — triple the figure of 52 on September 1. More than 3,000 people each day were being admitted to NHS hospitals during the peak of the first wave in April. Analysis suggests, at the current trend, it would take little more than three weeks for daily admissions to top the 2,000 mark. But experts insist a second wave of Covid-19 in Britain would not be nearly as fatal as the first because doctors have got better at treating the disease, thanks to scientific breakthroughs.    The ONS report suggests swab-testing is picking up around half of all infections, with an average of 3,300 people currently testing positive for Covid-19 each day. It is considered the most accurate data of its kind and falls in line with figures from a separate symptom-tracking app, which estimates cases have also doubled in a week to 7,500.    SAGE today revealed the R rate of the virus in the UK could be as high as 1.4 - the highest estimate since the group began making them. Outbreaks are also growing in all regions and expanding by up to eight or nine per cent per day in some places, Number 10's advisory board also warned.  Health officials today also announced 27 more coronavirus deaths in the UK's official count, with 14 in NHS hospitals in England. Scientists said the numbers, which they noted are rising across the board, were 'undoubtedly concerning' but 'not surprising'. Although the Government fears a second wave is coming, case, hospital and death rates are still significantly below where they were during the depths of the crisis and many scientists agree that Britain is unlikely to find itself in the same situation again.   It comes as another swathe of England is being ordered into coronavirus lockdown as Mr Hancock today admitted that a new national Covid squeeze is on the cards and Professor Chris Whitty, the chief medical officer for England, is reported to be pushing the Prime Minister to consider it. New curbs in some regions include a curfew on pubs and restaurants and a ban on socialising outside of households, and will be introduced across parts of the North West, Midlands and West Yorkshire from Tuesday. And health bosses revealed the first of the mothballed NHS Nightingale hospitals has been told to be ready to be reopened within just 48 hours. The temporary site in Birmingham's NEC arena - officially opened by Prince William via videolink in April - has been placed on 'higher alert' footing.   In other coronavirus developments today:   Analysis suggests, at the current trend, it would take little more than three weeks for daily admissions to top 2,000    But experts insist a second wave of Covid-19 in Britain would not be nearly as fatal as the first because doctors have got better at treating the disease, thanks to scientific breakthroughs. Data shows how the case-fatality rate, the number of deaths for every confirmed case, has dropped since the start of the outbreak in Britain     The Health Secretary pleaded with the public to 'come together to tackle this virus'  Today's ONS data comes as part of mass regular testing that has been done over the past six weeks, taking in 208,730 swab test results from the same people each week. It showed that around 0.11 per cent of them were infected with the virus between September 3 and September 10, up from 0.07 per cent last week. This equated to a total of 136 actual positive tests, showing around one in every 900 people is infected.   The report said London and the North West were the areas that appeared to have highest infection rates, while the virus was least widespread in the West Midlands and the South West.  London has escaped local lockdown rules since the national restrictions were lifted, despite bearing the brunt of the outbreak during the first wave. But the ONS report shows that the capital now appears to have one of the highest infection rates in the country, with an estimated 0.2 per cent of people testing positive. This was second only to the North West, which was thought to have the same level of infection.  The stats confirmed that young people appear to be driving the surge in new cases. The Covid-19 infection rate of people in their 20s in England fell last week for the first time in 10 weeks. Public Health England data shows that the number of cases per 100,000 population in the 20-29 age group dropped from 55.9 to 51.8 in the week ending September 13. Rates rose in all other age groups except the over-80s over the same time period, the data shows. Infections are, however, still significantly higher among 20-somethings than they are in any other age group. The next closest rate is in the most closely related group, with 37.5 cases per 100,000 people in people aged between 30 and 39. Young people have been blamed for much of the resurgence in cases since infections began to rise noticeably around a fortnight ago. Officials have blamed this on them being lax around social distancing rules and returning to pubs and restaurants, meeting up with large groups of friends and having parties - against the rules.  In a press conference earlier this month Boris Johnson said that young people should consider their behaviour 'for the sake of your parents' and your grandparents' health'. 'In recent weeks,' the report said, 'there has been clear evidence of an increase in the number of people testing positive for Covid-19 aged 2 to 11 years, 17 to 24 years and 25 to 34 years.'  In addition to the ONS data, the weekly prediction from King's College London, which runs a symptom-tracking app with healthcare tech company ZOE, suggests that 5,962 people in England are catching the virus each day, with another 1,600 in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. The King's data is based on 8,000 tests done between August 31 and September 13 and found that infections appear to be highest in the North East and North West of England, which are both seeing an estimated 1,600 cases per day. Professor Kevin McConway, a statistician at The Open University, said: 'This is undoubtedly concerning, and particularly so when we take into account that the data behind these estimates come from several sources, many of which - such as hospital admissions, admissions to intensive care, and deaths - lag behind the growth in new infections, because it takes time for people to become ill enough to require hospital treatment or, sadly, to die.  'So the estimates cannot take into account very recent changes in the patterns of new infections.'   Dr Simon Clarke, a microbiologist at the University of Reading, said: 'These data show a significant increase in the number of infections, albeit possibly at a slower doubling-rate than had been reported previously.  'This does not yet mean that the epidemic is uncontrollable and it may still be possible to hold it at bay with sufficient social distancing and hygiene, but that does require the public to engage properly. 'There has been a lot of argument about the significance of the current uptick in infections, but this loses sight of the fact that in the spring, Covid-19 put a large numbers people into hospital, very quickly, hindering the ability of the NHS from delivering care to people in pain on waiting lists, cancer sufferers and denied pregnant women from having the support of their partners. That could easily happen again and academic hair-splitting makes no difference to people’s day-to-day lives.'  The Health Secretary has today pleaded with the public to 'come together to tackle this virus' and admitted that a new national crackdown could be on the cards because it 'isn't just cases' that are increasing.  Professor Chris Whitty, England's chief medical officer, is reportedly pushing for another lockdown to try and get the virus back under control. According to former World Health Organization expert Anthony Costello, the PM has been told by Professor Whitty that such a move may be needed to stop the recent rise in infections. He said: 'I’m hearing from a well-connected person that government now thinks, in absence of testing, there are 38,000 infections per day. Chris Whitty is advising PM for a two week national lockdown.' Boris Johnson on dealing with the 'inevitable' second wave Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg has died at age 87 People party in street in Nottingham despite second wave imminent Couple built natural swimming pool in back garden in two years Birmingham freshers enjoy night out in Birmingham city centre Daredevil climber spotted on Paris skyscraper bare hands Lord McColl says don't blame COVID rates on Government Horrifying moment toddlers are crushed by falling cabinet drawers Drinkers in Newcastle partake in messy night out prior to lockdown Paraglider pulls off perfect ground spiral manoeuvre Listen at an alligator inhaling helium in the name of science Joan Collins claims late sister sent her sign as house had power cut       Government statistics show 194 newly-infected Covid-19 patients were admitted to hospitals in England on Tuesday, compared to just 84 eight days ago and just 38 on August 30. It means 154 patients are needing NHS care each day, on average — triple the figure of 52 on September 1. The number of outbreaks of coughs and chest infections in care homes, schools and offices have surged dramatically in the first half of September. Acute respiratory infection outbreaks - when two or more people have the same coughing bug - became eight times more common in the second week of September than in the first in England's schools.  Not all the outbreaks will be Covid-19 - they are chest infections more generally - but some are. In educational settings there were 193 outbreaks in the week ending September 13, up from just 23 the week before. Children across England returned to classrooms during that week, with many of them going to their first full-time lessons since before lockdown.  In care homes the number of outbreaks rose from 69 to 313 in the same week - a nearly five-fold rise. And in workplace settings - offices and other places of work - they doubled from 65 to 110 in the same week. More than 3,000 people each day were being admitted to NHS hospitals during the peak of the first wave in April. Analysis suggests, at the current trend, it would take little more than three weeks for daily admissions to top 2,000. And a top infectious disease expert today warned that it is 'plausible' the doubling rate of every eight days could continue. Professor Paul Hunter, of University of East Anglia, told MailOnline the number of admissions could surpass the daily rate seen in March and April in just a month's time.  Cases have spiked over the same time frame, with another 3,395 infections recorded yesterday — a 33 per cent rise in a week. Deaths are also starting to creep up, with the average number of patients dying each day now standing at 14 — up from seven a fortnight ago.  A weekly report by SAGE today said that the R rate for the UK appears to be between 1.2 and 1.4, while it is between 1.1 and 1.4 in England. These are the highest estimates the chief scientists have given since their regular updates began. The R appears to be highest in the Midlands and North West, where it is thought to be between 1.2 and 1.5, meaning each infected case passes it on to 1.2 to 1.5 others, or every 10 infect 12 or 15 more. If the R remains above 1 the outbreak will continue to grow and cases will keep surging, running the risk that local outbreaks spiral out of control into regional and even national problems. SAGE cautions, however, that its estimates of R are around three weeks out of date each time they are published, because they are calculated by watching how the numbers of positive tests and hospital cases change over time.  More aggressive measures, including a national 'circuit breaker', are on the cards to stop the growth of the outbreak. The move could come as soon as next week, with pubs, restaurants and hotels facing being shut to prevent 'significant' casualties. It comes as hospitals have been warned they must clear beds and brace themselves for a rise in coronavirus patients in the next few weeks.   MPs in London have been informed of plans to increase 'step down' beds in the capital, it was reported today. The beds will be made available to coronavirus patients who no longer need any hospital treatment, but can recover from the disease while isolating.     Hospitals cancelled thousands of surgeries like hip operations and cancer treatment  to free up space for infected patients at the peak of the crisis, causing the NHS to have a record-high waiting list for routine treatment. The drive to free up beds in the first wave also saw coronavirus-infected patients discharged into care homes, where the virus was allowed to spread.  Prime Minister Boris Johnson visits the Jenner Institute in Oxford, England, today Friday, September 18 Boris Johnson is pictured during a visit to a testing lab in Oxford today. The Jenner Institute is the lab at the forefront of attempts to make a vaccine to prevent Covid-19 Boris Johnson on dealing with the 'inevitable' second wave Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg has died at age 87 People party in street in Nottingham despite second wave imminent Couple built natural swimming pool in back garden in two years Birmingham freshers enjoy night out in Birmingham city centre Daredevil climber spotted on Paris skyscraper bare hands Lord McColl says don't blame COVID rates on Government Horrifying moment toddlers are crushed by falling cabinet drawers Drinkers in Newcastle partake in messy night out prior to lockdown Paraglider pulls off perfect ground spiral manoeuvre Listen at an alligator inhaling helium in the name of science Fascinating new views of Jupiter taken by the Hubble Space Telescope  In an interview with BBC Breakfast this morning, Mr Hancock warned that it was 'absolutely critical' that people continued to follow the basic rules with regard to coronavirus. He said: 'We have seen an acceleration in the number of cases over the last couple of weeks and we’ve also sadly seen that the number of people hospitalised with coronavirus is doubling about every eight days, so we do need to take action.' Lockdown fears are brewing in London as cases have risen 33 per cent in one week - faster than the North East, which today was hit by tougher restrictions to control the spread of the virus. The number of cases per 100,000 has jumped up from 18.8 to around 25 in seven days amid schools re-opening and a drive to get people back into offices and pubs, data suggests. If it crosses over 50, a 'local lockdown' could be triggered, documents seen by The Evening Standard reveal.   And the Office for National Statistics (ONS) estimates 0.2 per cent of London's population - 178,000 people - are currently carrying the coronavirus, which is second only to the North West. For comparison, the rate in the North East is just 0.16 per cent.    Public Health England figures today revealed Redbridge, a borough in the east of the city, has the highest Covid-19 infection rate at 34.2 and cases have risen in the authority for four weeks in a row. For comparison, the highest in England is 175.2 in Bolton, Greater Manchester.  It is followed by Hounslow (32.5) and Barking and Dagenham (29.3) - boroughs on two opposite sides of the city, suggesting spread is not just limited to one part of the capital. But none of these have yet been listed as an 'area of concern' by PHE today as attention diverts to the hotspots in the north and middle of England. South London has escaped the current spike in cases, with the three boroughs with the lowest infection rates at present being Sutton (9.3), Bromley (11.8) and Bexley (12.1).  Today the Mayor of London Sadiq Khan pleaded with city-dwellers to adhere to social distancing rules because London is 'two weeks behind' some regions of the UK where curfews and bans on socialising have come into force. But No10 has denied claims there are plans for London to follow in the footsteps of the North East, North West and Midlands, where around 12million people have been placed under tough restrictions - including a ban on seeing friends and family outside the same household - to stop the spread of Covid-19. The government's most-up-to-date data shows 194 Covid-19 patients in England were admitted to hospital on September 15 — at an average of 154 a day over the past week. For comparison, the rolling seven-day average had dipped to as low as 45 on August 22, when just 25 hospital admissions were recorded across the country. At the height of the pandemic at the start of April, the average number of daily admissions was 2,700. Britain's lockdown and tough social distancing measures allowed the rate to plummet to below 1,000 by the start of May. Department of Health chiefs say data is not updated every day by all four nations and the figures are not comparable. For instance, Wales include suspected Covid-19 patients while all the other nations include only confirmed cases. Professor Hunter told MailOnline that the spike in admissions is 'predictable' and 'expected', given the spike in cases over the past few weeks. He added: 'It's worrying that it's going up but the big concern is how many hospital admissions we will end up seeing.  'I suspect it will carry on... but I suspect we won't see it doubling quite as rapidly because, often, these things start off quite fast and then they tail off after a little while. 'It doesn't always tail off, but ultimately it does because if it carries on doubling [at that speed], then soon every single person on the planet will be on hospital. So it has to tail off eventually.  'The issue is when does it start tailing off? I have no way of knowing.' Professor Hunter added that it was 'plausible' England's hospital admissions could get up the levels seen in April but admitted he think it's probably won't happen. He said: 'The evidence is older people are still, sort of, social distancing themselves more than other groups, and they're the group most likely to get hospitalised. There's also a smaller pool to get infected and be hospitalised than we saw back in March and April. 'But it may well continue, and it's plausible that England could well in a month's time be surpassing that figure. But I hope not.'  It comes as hospitals have been warned they must clear beds and brace themselves for a rise in coronavirus patients in the next few weeks. One MP who has seen the plans told the Telegraph: 'I was told hospitals have reserved beds for people coming out of hospital who need somewhere to re-cover. 'At the start of lockdown they were having to send people back to care homes or back to other facilities, with dire consequences, so they've booked places in respite care or empty care homes, so people will go out of hospital, but won't return to their normal place of living.'  Another source said that councils have also been asked to find extra beds   It comes amid more testing chaos yesterday as Baroness Dido Harding, head of NHS Test and Trace, revealed that demand for coronavirus tests is currently up to four times greater than the system's capacity.     The government's testing tzar also blamed the Government's Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (SAGE) for seemingly getting its predictions wrong as she said testing capacity had been built based on the panel's recommendations.  Last night it emerged the country's faltering testing system could be outsourced to Amazon, as reported by The Telegraph. A source said: 'At the moment the man- agement of NHS Test and Trace has been in-house but as we go into winter we need experts in this area to take it forward.'     The government is also expected to announce tighter restrictions on care home visits in areas with high numbers of coronavirus cases are expected to be announced by the Government in its winter action plan. Care homes in areas subject to local lockdowns may be advised to temporarily restrict visits in all but end-of-life situations, it is understood. For parts of the country where there is no local lockdown, but where community transmission is a cause for concern, an option officials are considering is advising that visits are restricted to one designated visitor per resident. The Government will set out further details on Friday in its social care action plan to help fight the spread of coronavirus over winter. AREA England UK --  East London Midlands North East  North West South East South West  THIS WEEK  3% to 7% 2% to 7%   0% to 5% 3% to 7% 4% to 8% 3% to 8% 3% to 8% 3% to 7% 0% to 9% LAST WEEK  1% to 4% -1 to +3   -1 to +4% 2% to 4% -1% to 3% 1% to 5% 2% to 5% 0 to +4% -1% to +4% AREA England UK --  East London Midlands North East  North West South East South West  THIS WEEK  1.1 - 1.4 1.2 - 1.4   1.0 - 1.3 1.1 - 1.4 1.2 - 1.5 1.2 - 1.4 1.2 - 1.5 1.1 - 1.4 0.9 - 1.6   LAST WEEK 1.0 - 1.2 1.0 - 1.2   0.9 - 1.2 1.1 - 1.3 0.9 - 1.1 1.0 - 1.2 1.1 - 1.3 1.0 - 1.2 0.9 - 1.2  As part of the plan, care homes will receive free protective equipment and providers must stop 'all but essential' movement of staff between homes, the Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC) said. This will be supported by an additional £546 million announced on Thursday as part of the extended infection control fund. A new dashboard will monitor care home infections and help local government and providers respond quickly. And a chief nurse for adult social care will be appointed to represent social care nurses and provide 'clinical leadership'. Local authorities and the Care Quality Commission will be asked to take 'strong action' in instances where providers are not restricting staff movement adequately. The DHSC said this could include restricting a service's operation and issuing warning notices. Health and Social Care Secretary Matt Hancock said: 'We are entering a critical phase in our fight against coronavirus with winter on the horizon. 'Our priority over the next six months is to make sure we protect those most vulnerable receiving care and our incredibly hard-working workforce by limiting the spread of the virus and preventing a second spike. 'This winter plan gives providers the certainty they need when it comes to PPE and provides additional support to help care homes to limit the movement of staff, stop the spread of coronavirus and save lives. 'We will be monitoring the implementation of this carefully and will be swift in our actions to protect residents and colleagues across the country.' It comes as Age UK said some older people are 'dying of sadness' because they have been cut off from loved ones over a long period of time. Charity director Caroline Abrahams said it is important the plan achieves an 'appropriate balance' between ensuring infection control and allowing residents to keep in contact with loved ones. She said: 'All in all what we have seen so far is promising, but we will await with interest to read what the plan says about visiting in care homes. 'With Covid-19 cases on the rise and winter on the way it's right that every activity that could potentially place residents at risk is considered very carefully, including visiting, but any sense of a 'blanket ban' would be highly inappropriate, however anxious we may all feel. 'Risks, capabilities and opportunities of all kinds differ hugely across care homes and for the sake of older people this enormous variation must be taken fully into account.' Liz Kendall, Labour's shadow social care minister, welcomed the appointment of a chief nurse and increased funding. She continued: 'But the real test of this plan is whether the Government delivers on weekly testing of all care staff - first promised in July but still not delivered, with serious concerns about delays in getting results back. 'Ensuring families can visit their loved ones is also critical, as without this care home residents can end up fading fast.' 
Landlords warn return of nationwide restrictions will shut them Landlords have warned that a second lockdown could see pubs close for good unless the Government provides a support package, as fears of a second coronavirus wave increase. Campaign for Real Ale, a voluntary organisation which promotes British pubs, has warned that a second national coronavirus lockdown could have a 'terrifying impact' on pubs across the UK. It said that many pubs are making their venues Covid-secure and are still struggling 'to return to growth' two months after reopening following the first lockdown. The national chairman Nik Antona has urged the Government to introduce a support package for pubs to reintroduce the full furlough scheme amid fears of a second coronavirus wave.   Campaign for Real Ale, which promotes pubs across Britain, has warned that a second national coronavirus lockdown could see pubs closing for good across the UK. Pictured, The Montagu Pyke in London on July 4 Nik Antona added: 'The prospect of a second lockdown will be a terrifying impact on publicans who have invested money and time making their premises COVID secure and who are still struggling to return to growth two months after reopening.  'If another lockdown is announced, the Government must immediately introduce a new, comprehensive support package for pubs that includes extending the business rates holiday for another year, reintroducing the full furlough scheme, and announcing new hospitality support grants.  'This will be the only way to avoid mass pub closures and job losses. 'The vast majority of publicans and pub-goers across the country are doing the right thing.  'They are acting responsibly and willing to do whatever is necessary to provide a safe, Covid-secure place for people to enjoy the wellbeing benefits of having a pint with friends and family.'  In other coronavirus news:  A 10pm curfew has already been imposed on pubs and restaurants across the northeast of England, as further lockdown measures are imposed. Health Secretary Matt Hancock confirmed the measures, which also ban people from mixing with other households, in a statement to the House of Commons on Thursday. And today, Mr Hancock has further warned that another blanket national lockdown was the 'last line of defence' but said now is a 'big moment for the country'. Another swathe of England is being ordered into coronavirus lockdown as Mr Hancock today admitted that a new national Covid squeeze is on the cards. Curfews on pubs is also being introduced from Tuesday across parts of the North West, Midlands and West Yorkshire as the Government tightens restrictions in high-risk areas. Some supermarkets and food retailers have already put contingency plans in place if the testing system buckles. Above, people enjoy a drink in Liverpool on September 18 Some supermarkets and food retailers have already put contingency plans in place if the testing system buckles. Brakes, a food wholesaler, who have been operating throughout the pandemic, said: 'We've got very strong contingency plans in place which include temperature checks before being allowed on site. 'Only essential people on site and stringent policies once people are there, which has meant that so far we have had very few people showing COVID-like symptoms.'  The Co-op group said that funeral care staff are on the key worker list so can get priority testing, but their food workers are not.  A spokesman said: 'We've built a model where we know that we have access to variable colleague resources at fairly short notice, so we have some resilience on that.  'Clearly we all hope that the testing capability will continue to strengthen and improve but we've got some protection in place, because the Co-op has had to deal with this throughout.  'It's clearly a real challenge and anything that can be done to help the [testing] situation [is welcome].' Visitors show a member of staff a mobile phone screen at a drive through test centre in south London today The Health Secretary has announced that Covid tests could be rationed with a 'priority list' to make sure that environments such as care homes and hospitals would have enough tests. Prime Minister Boris Johnson has also admitted that there is not enough capacity in the testing system after demand 'massively accelerated' in recent weeks.  Bosses also fear that office staff will soon be back working from home within weeks due to the current testing fiasco - as supermarkets make contingency plans if workers can't get swabbed. The Government has come under fire after widespread reports of people having to travel hundreds of miles to get checked and being unable to book a test at all. This is despite Ministers pledging that testing capacity will hit 500,000 a day by the end of October. The test and trace system has buckled under the pressure since children returned to school and the Government made a concerted effort to encourage people back into the office in order to try and kickstart the flagging UK economy. Business leaders have displayed concerns about the current testing system and emphasised that it working effectively will be vital for getting employees back to work and boosting the UK economy. Matt Fell CBI, UK Chief Policy Director, said if the Government wants to encourage people into their workplace safely then the test and trace system will be a 'key component.'     There have been long queues at some Covid testing sites, such as this one in Southend-on-Sea, but others have been deserted despite people struggling to get screened 'Reports of people being unable to access tests in their area or waiting too long to get the results will be deeply frustrating for individual and businesses alike,' he added. 'No one doubts how much effort is going in to get it right. The prize is having a faster turnaround in getting results which will let people know where they stand and whether they need to self-isolate or can return to work quickly.' Adam Marshall, director-general of the British Chambers of Commerce, told the Financial Times, the Government needed to improve the testing facility 'immediately'. 'A truly comprehensive test and trace programme is essential if the UK is to manage the virus without further lockdowns which will cripple businesses.' 'Continuing delays and a shortage of tests saps business, staff and consumer confidence at a fragile moment for the economy.' Business leaders are becoming increasingly anxious that members of staff will be left self-isolating at home with family members waiting for test results to come back, rather than being back in the office during a pivotal moment for the UK economy.
Manchester authority tells care homes to accept Covid patients A Manchester authority has reportedly told care homes to accept Covid-19 patients being discharged from hospitals to free up beds when a second wave hits. Trafford council in Greater Manchester, a coronavirus hotspot in England, says care homes will need to be prepared to take elderly people, regardless of if they are infected, because 'hospitals need to have enough beds'. In some cases, care homes may be expected to take patients just two hours after they are deemed ready for discharge by a hospital, even if they have tested positive for Covid-19. In that time care home bosses will need to rapidly ensure the home has infection control in place to protect dozens of other vulnerable residents. Over-80s are most at risk of dying from the coronavirus. The guidance is in line with that from the Government, which says 'the care sector also plays a vital role in accepting patients as they're discharged from hospital… some of these patients may have Covid-19'. Experts slammed the move and said the Government had 'not learnt its lessons' from the peak of the pandemic, when some 15,000 care home residents died of the coronavirus. This has partially been blamed on official guidance which said a negative Covid-19 test was not needed on discharge, effectively seeding the infection into the most vulnerable parts of society. The Relatives & Residents association said it was 'perverse' allowing Covid-19 positive people to live in a care home while also banning relatives from visiting their loved ones. The council of Trafford in Greater Manchester, a coronavirus hotspot in England, says care homes will need to be prepared to take elderly people regardless of if they are carrying the coronavirus. Picture from Channel 4 News, which saw the report The contract from Trafford Council was seen by Channel 4, which said the council 'outlines how eligible care homes will receive COVID-positive patients within just two hours of the patient being identified by the hospital as ready for discharge'. It sets out terms for the 'Rapid Discharge' of patients from hospital, and states that 'some of these patients may have COVID-19, whether symptomatic or asymptomatic'. The paper says 'all of these patients can be cared for safely in the care home' if it follows stringent measures. Vulnerable people living in care homes are 'dying of loneliness,' as they're deprived from seeing families due to lockdown, while delays in testing have exposed 'huge staff shortages,' in the sector, it has been claimed. Baroness Ros Altmann, a former Minister of State for pensions, welcomed Matt Hancock's announcement yesterday that care home residents would receive free PPE during the winter to curb the spread of Covid-19. The Health Secretary announced a £500million 'infection control fund' will help pay workers full wages when they are self-isolating and ensure carers work in only one care home, thereby reducing the risk of spreading the virus. Mr Hancock unveiled his winter action plan, which will also include guidance on whether care homes should restrict visits from family members. Baroness Altmann warned restrictions could put lives at risk. Speaking on Good Morning Britain today, she said: 'Some people in care homes are more likely to die because of loneliness from lockdown and that is a real problem. 'Many of those people were unable to see their relatives and were desperately, desperately in need of their family visits and the family themselves needed to see the older people. 'One has to wonder whether it's right for the Government to say they can't go and see their loved ones. 'Some people died on their own, other people in care homes aren't necessarily vulnerable, so I just wonder if depriving people of their "visitation rights" as it were, is the best way to go. 'I hope it won't be too draconian that therefore people in care homes aren't just left totally isolated from their families and loved ones if they desperately need to see them.' It is not clear who the contract was sent to, exactly, or when. The guidance is in line with official UK Government guidance, updated on September 16. It says care homes in England should be prepared to accept Covid-19 positive patients from hospitals as 'part of the national effort'. Covid-19 hospital admissions have begun creeping up again. And if they reach levels seen during the peak of the pandemic, there will be an urgency to free beds once again. Health bosses today revealed the temporary NHS Nightingale hospital in Birmingham's NEC arena - officially opened by Prince William via videolink during the darkest days of the outbreak in April - has been placed on standby so it can start treating patients within two to three days.  Professor Adam Gordon, of the British Geriatrics Society, said: 'If we see similar pressures on the hospital sector this time around then it will be commonplace under the current guidance that people who are COVID positive will be discharged back into care homes.' The Government guidance says: 'As part of the national effort, the care sector also plays a vital role in accepting patients as they're discharged from hospital, because recuperation is better in non-acute settings. 'Some of these patients may have Covid-19.' Martin Vernon, who was the NHS England National Clinical Director for Older People from 2016 until 2019, said it was clear the Government had not learnt its lessons from the first wave of the pandemic in March and April. In March and April at least 25,000 people were discharged from NHS hospitals into care homes without getting tested for coronavirus, a report by the National Audit Office found. This move came at the peak of the outbreak and has been blamed for 'seeding' Covid-19 outbreaks in the homes which later became impossible to control. Mr Vernon said it's not necessarily a bad thing that the elderly are discharged to a care home, rather than being kept in a hospital for a long period of time. 'But it has to be done in a way that is safe and appropriate for all people,' he told Channel 4. 'Particularly I think the rapid discharge into care homes suggests that the earlier lessons about managed and safe discharge have not been learned at all. 'I think the new criteria put forward by government are really not particularly well thought through.' Helen Wildbore, who is head of the Relatives and Residents association, said the news will be 'very concerning for people living in care and their families in what has already been a very challenging period'. She said: 'It raises questions not least what kind of safeguards and protections will be in place to support the person being discharged and the home to ensure that the person with Covid gets access to the right treatment and support in the home, to protect the staff at risk of catching the virus, and presumably these are homes with other residents in them. 'So how will these homes protect other people and avoid spreading the infection around the home?' Helen Wildbore, who is head of the Relatives and Residents association, said the news will be 'very concerning for people living in care and their families in what has already been a very challenging period' (stock photo) Hospitals have been warned they must clear beds and brace themselves for a rise in coronavirus patients in the next few weeks. Covid-19 cases, hospital admissions and deaths are all on the rise, government figures revealed yesterday as more than 10 million people will soon be living under local lockdowns as the North East became the latest to impose restrictions. Yesterday another 3,395 Covid-19 infections were recorded, meaning the rolling seven-day average number of cases has risen 2 per cent in a day and 33 per cent in a week to 3,354. The uptick is prompting concerns the country is moving towards a second peak of the virus. MPs in London have been informed of plans to increase 'step down' beds in the capital, as reported by The Telegraph. The beds will be made available to coronavirus patients who no longer need any hospital treatment, but can recover from the disease while isolating. One MP who has seen the plans told the newspaper: 'I was told hospitals have reserved beds for people coming out of hospital who need somewhere to re-cover. 'At the start of lockdown they were having to send people back to care homes or back to other facilities, with dire consequences, so they've booked places in respite care or empty care homes, so people will go out of hospital, but won't return to their normal place of living.' Another source said that councils have also been asked to find extra beds.   Care homes across England have been tightening rules on visitors since they re-opened temporarily in the summer because of the recent uptick in coronavirus infections. A worker at a national care home provider, who asked to remain anonymous, said there was 'pressure' from local authorities to take patients, including those carrying the virus, despite guidance suggesting no care home will be forced to do so. 'They are aiming now for patients to be out of hospital into a care home within a few hours from the decision to discharge them. That process used to take about a week. 'We have contracts with local authorities for block beds and you have to have a very good reason to reject a referral.' The source said the care home sector was 'relying on the testing system to help keep our residents and staff safe'. However, testing in the UK has spiralled into chaos this past week, with shortages blocking thousands from getting a test. Yesterday testing tsar Baroness Dido Harding said the number of people calling 119 or visiting the website to try to book tests was 'three to four times the number of tests that we currently have available' – although that would involve some double counting. Baroness Harding – head of NHS Test and Trace – acknowledged that demand was significantly outstripping capacity as pressure continued to mount on the Government over the chaos in the testing system. Care home and the NHS will be the top of the priority list for testing, drawn up by the Government and expected to be unveiled imminently.   But the insider said current problems with testing in the UK meant care homes could not know whether the virus was circulating in the home after accepting Covid-19 positive patients. 'When you're bringing Covid positive patients into a care home many will die. We have strong procedures to prevent the spread, but this virus is extremely contagious,' they said.  It comes after the Health Secretary yesterday unveiled his winter action plan, including a £500million 'infection control fund'. It will help pay workers full wages when they are self-isolating and ensure carers work in only one care home, thus preventing spread of the coronavirus.   A spokesperson for Trafford Council said: 'The discharge of patients from hospital is a carefully co-ordinated process in line with national government guidance. 'At all times, the health and wellbeing of the person being discharged is our primary concern and, if they are discharged to a care home, we make sure it is one that meets their health and social care needs. 'We appreciate that there is a quick turnaround but our contracts reflect the national requirements to ensure people are discharged safely and quickly. The alternative to doing this would be to leave the person in hospital. This would mean that the person's recovery may take longer in an inappropriate setting, leaving them at higher risk of infection while also preventing seriously ill people being admitted to hospital to receive critical care when they need it. 'It is also in the contract that care homes have the right to refuse to accept a patient – and no patient is transferred to a care home without discussion and agreement of the care home. It would be totally against our values simply to turn up at a care home without the care home's prior agreement. It would also be against the interests of both the care home and the person. 'It is also important to note that we insisted from the start of the pandemic that any patients ready for discharge were tested for coronavirus beforehand to reduce the risk of infection within the community. 'The care homes in Trafford who provide the Rapid Discharge to Assess service have been extremely supportive throughout this pandemic and we are very proud to be working alongside them to ensure our residents are well looked after at all times.' A Department of Health and Social Care spokesperson said: 'Our priority is to ensure that people are discharged safely from hospital to the most appropriate place, and that they continue to receive the care and support they need. 'No care home will be forced to admit an existing or new resident to the care home if they do not feel they can provide the appropriate care.' 'Today we announced over half a billion pounds extra funding for care providers to reduce Covid-19 transmission and help protect residents and staff throughout winter.' FEBRUARY - SAGE scientists warned Government 'very early on' about the risk to care homes Britain's chief scientific adviser, Sir Patrick Vallance, revealed in April that he and other senior scientists warned politicians 'very early on' about the risk COVID-19 posed to care homes.    He said: 'So very early on we looked at a number of topics, we looked at nosocomial infection very early on, that's the spread in hospitals, and we flagged that as something that the NHS needed to think about.  'We flagged the fact that we thought care homes would be an important area to look at, and we flagged things like vaccine development and so on. So we try to take a longer term view of things as well as dealing with the urgent and immediate areas.' The SAGE committee  met for the first time on January 22, suggesting 'very early on' in its discussions was likely the end of January or the beginning of February.  MARCH - Hospital patients discharged to homes without tests In March and April at least 25,000 people were discharged from NHS hospitals into care homes without getting tested for coronavirus, a report by the National Audit Office found. This move came at the peak of the outbreak and has been blamed for 'seeding' Covid-19 outbreaks in the homes which later became impossible to control. NHS England issued an order to its hospitals to free up as many beds as they could, and later sent out joint guidance with the Department of Health saying that patients did not need to be tested beforehand.  Chair of the public accounts committee and a Labour MP in London, Meg Hillier, said: 'Residents and staff were an afterthought yet again: out of sight and out of mind, with devastating consequences.'  MARCH - Public Health England advice still did not raise alarm about care home risk and allowed visits An early key error in the handling of the crisis, social care consultant Melanie Henwood told the Mail on Sunday, was advice issued by Public Health England (PHE) on February 25 that it remained 'very unlikely' people in care homes would become infected as there was 'currently no transmission of Covid-19 in the UK'. Yet a fortnight earlier the UK Government's Scientific Pandemic Influenza Modelling committee had concluded: 'It is a realistic probability that there is already sustained transmission in the UK, or that it will become established in the coming weeks.' On March 13, PHE advice for care homes changed 'asking no one to visit who has suspected Covid-19 or is generally unwell' – but visits were still allowed. Three days later, Mr Johnson said: 'Absolutely, we don't want to see people unnecessarily visiting care homes.' MARCH/APRIL - Testing not readily available to care home residents In March and April coronavirus swab tests - to see who currently has the disease - were rationed and not available to all care home residents suspected of having Covid-19. Government policy dictated that a sample of residents would be tested if one showed symptoms, then an outbreak would be declared and anyone else with symptoms presumed to be infected without a test. The Department of Health has been in control of who gets Covid-19 tests and when, based on UK testing capacity.  MARCH/APRIL - Bosses warned homes didn't have enough PPE  Care home bosses were furious in March and April - now known to have been the peak of the UK's epidemic - that their staff didn't have enough access to personal protective equipment such as gloves, masks and aprons. A letter sent from the Association of Directors of Adult Social Services (Adass) to the Department of Health saw the care chiefs accuse a senior figure at the Department of overseeing a 'shambolic response'.  Adass said it was facing 'confusion' and additional work as a result of mixed messaging put out by the Government. It said the situation around PPE, which was by then mandatory for all healthcare workers, was 'shambolic' and that deliveries had been 'paltry' or 'haphazard'. A shortage of PPE has been a consistent issue from staff in care homes since the pandemic began, and the union Unison revealed at the beginning of May that it had already received 3,600 reports about inadequate access to PPE from workers in the sector. APRIL - Care home deaths left out of official fatality count The Department of Health refused to include people who had died outside of hospitals in its official daily death count until April 29, three weeks after deaths had peaked in the UK.  It started to include the 'all settings' measure from that date and added on 3,811 previously uncounted Covid-19 deaths on the first day.
Tory peer Lord McColl blames FAT PEOPLE for UK's high Covid death toll A Tory peer said it was 'despicable' to  blame the government for thousands of coronavirus deaths - blaming them on fat people. Former surgeon Lord McColl of Dulwich, 87, said Britain's high Covid-19 death rate is not the Government's fault but partly because the 'majority of people are obese'.  He said attaching blame to Boris Johnson's administration was 'despicable' and 'propaganda (that) simply demoralises the public'. Speaking in House of Lords debate today he also blamed population density and the country's status as a travel hub for creating a perfect storm of conditions.  He told a debate on coronavirus regulations: 'As a doctor, I am very, very concerned about preventative medicine. 'What was clear about the pandemic early on was that the majority of those afflicted had many medical conditions that made them much more vulnerable to Covid. 'Obesity and Covid is a very dangerous combination and the reason for this is obesity impairs the immune system. 'The reason the high mortality in the UK is because the majority of people are obese, and the population is the densest in Europe and moreover is the travel hub of Europe. Former surgeon Lord McColl of Dulwich, 87, said Britain's high Covid-19 death rate is not the Government's fault but partly because the 'majority of people are obese' He said attaching blame to Boris Johnson's administration was 'perverse'. 'Blaming the Government for the high mortality is therefore one of the most despicable allegations I've heard in this pandemic. 'That kind of propaganda simply demoralises the public. The UK death toll is more than 41,700, with separate figures published by the statistics agencies showing 57,500 cases where Covid-19 was mentioned on a death certificate. Lord McColl also urged Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer to join Boris Johnson's drive to reduce obesity in order to 'reduce the mortality in future pandemics'.  The per has previously hit out as fat Britons. In February last year he suggested Royal Navy submarines should be equipped with wider escape hatches in future because British sailors are getting too fat to fit.  The Tory blasted the UK’s plump personnel, saying that ejector seats on modern fighter jets have also had to be designed to cope with heavier pilots. The former professor of surgery at Guy's and St Thomas' Medical School, who was a  junior health minister under John Major, spoke in a House of Lords debate on eating disorders.
Rich get richer: US billionaires gained $845B in pandemic America's billionaires have reaped a windfall during the first six months of the coronavirus pandemic, gaining a collective $845 billion even as jobless claims hit record highs and millions were thrown out of work. The gains represent a 29 percent jump in net worth for America's billionaires, according to a join report on Thursday from Americans for Tax Fairness and the Institute for Policy Studies, a politically liberal think-tank.  The report, based on data from Forbes, shows how the richest have prospered during a pandemic that has crushed small businesses and wreaked havoc on the economy. In dollar terms, no one gained more than Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos, the world's richest man, who saw his net worth increase by $73.2 billion, to $186.2 billion, between March 18 and September 15. This table shows the gains of the 15 richest billionaires in America, who gained a collective $400 billion, or nearly half of the total gains of all billionaires In dollar terms, no one gained more than Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos (above), the world's richest man, who saw his net worth increase by $73.2 billion, to $186.2 billion Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg (left) nearly doubled his net worth to $100.6 billion, while Tesla CEO Elon Musk's (right) net worth skyrocketed 274 percent to $92 billion Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg also saw handsome gains during the pandemic, nearly doubling his net worth to $100.6 billion.  On a percentage basis, Tesla CEO Elon Musk's wealth soared, with his net worth skyrocketing 274 percent to $92 billion over the six-month period. Bill Gates, the second richest man in the world after Bezos, saw more modest gains, adding a mere $18.3 billion to his net worth.  Oracle chairman Larry Ellison gained $20.2 billion over the last six months, and stands to gain even more if President Donald Trump approves his company's proposal to partner with TikTok parent ByteDance to keep the Chinese video-sharing app running in the U.S. It comes during a period of historic economic and physical suffering for most Americans.  Over 50 million Americans lost jobs in the pandemic, with nearly 14 million still unemployed. Meanwhile, nearly 200,000 have died from the virus, with a total of 6.6 million infected.  Oracle chairman Larry Ellison gained $20.2 billion over the last six months, while Berkshire Hathaway Chairman Warren Buffett (right) saw his net worth rise by $15.7 billion 'The billionaire economy has been turbocharged by policymakers who are now stalling on relief for the real economy,' said Chuck Collins, director of the Institute for Policy Studies' Program on Inequality and co-author of the report.  'The difference is stark between profits for billionaires and the widespread economic misery in our nation. Clearly, the priorities of our elected officials in Washington, DC are completely upside down,' Collins said. Even among billionaires, the richest gains were highly concentrated. Roughly $400 billion, or only a little less than half of the total gains, were captured by just the 15 wealthiest on the billionaires list.  The top three gainers alone - Bezos, Zuckerberg and Musk - enjoyed 16 percent of the spoils, or a collective wealth surge of $137 billion.  MacKenzie Scott, the ex-wife of Jeff Bezos, gained $23.9 billion during the pandemic Struggling New Yorkers line up at a food bank outside the Barclays Center in Brooklyn last week. Millions have been thrown out of work during the pandemic, even as billionaires gained  Although stocks, which make up most of the net worth of the nation's billionaires, tanked in March, their gains during the pandemic do not merely reflect the subsequent recovery on Wall Street. Billionaires are also $680 billion, or 22 percent, richer today than they were in February 2019, the release date of the most recent previous Forbes annual report. 'Every candidate in this campaign season, from presidential hopeful down, who's pledging to lead us out of the coronavirus crisis must address this stark divergence between the nation's wealthiest elite and their struggling fellow citizens,' said Frank Clemente, executive director of Americans for Tax Fairness, a left-leaning advocacy group.  'The answer starts with creating a fair share tax system that narrows obscene wealth gaps and raises the trillions of dollars needed to address the present emergency and invest in our families and communities over the long-term,' said Clemente. In August, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont and Rep. Ilhan Omar of Minnesota introduced a bill that would tax 60 percent of the gains of billionaires during the pandemic.
Chaos in Britain's Covid labs: Scientist lifts lid on facilities Covid testing 'is dying on its a**e', a leading scientist warned today as he said he was 'appalled by what I saw' at the Government's testing labs.  Concerns have been raised about the Government's seven 'Lighthouse Labs' and their ability to process results, due to shortages of staff and equipment.  Genomics scientist and inventor Phil Robinson, who was invited into one of the labs to see how they work, said it was poorly managed, running out of staff and had failed to set up automatic processes - despite fears that the UK would inevitably be hit by a second wave.  He told The Times: 'Every part of the process was poor. The other ludicrous issue they have is they have 20 different types of tube coming into the lab. When you are running a high throughput lab it's only sensible to have one. Why they haven't standardised that I have no idea. 'Testing is dying on its a**e because schools are going back and here we are again. They haven't used that period of lockdown to implement automation.' Amid chaos in the laboratories, the Government's test and trace system was also criticised as being 'barely functional', with workers taking up to two weeks to contact friends, relatives and workmates of those who have tested positive for Covid-19. Baroness Dido Harding, who leads the test and trace system, admitted yesterday that demand for swabs is up to four times Britain's capacity, but declared the sudden rise as children returned to school and parents went back to the office had not been predicted - despite repeated warnings.  The government's testing fiasco has seen hundreds of people who queued for Covid swabs at a south London testing centre turned away after not being sent important QR codes, while other sites across the country have been practically deserted. As the testing fiasco rages on:  The proportion of people getting their Covid-19 test results within 24 hours has plummeted for all kinds of test, performance data showed today A scientist has warned of chaos in the Government's coronavirus testing labs. Pictured is a volunteer processing samples at a laboratory in Alderley Park, Cheshire On Thursday, the Government announced that it was launching two new 'Lighthouse' testing labs in Newcastle and Bracknell. Accompanying new sites in Newport, Wales, and Charnwood in the Midlands, the four labs promise to increase capacity to deliver 500,000 tests per day by the end of October, DHSC said. The Newcastle and Bracknell facilities are not expected to be fully operational until March and February, respectively. NHS Providers, which represents NHS trust leaders, argued that the country was 'a long way off where we need to be with testing'. The UK'S test and trace system could be outsourced to a delivery giant such as Amazon, it was reported last night. Ministers are said to be planning to hand over the running of the testing service to a logistics firm as the system struggles to cope with increased demand for tests. A invitation to bid for a contract covering the management of the entire 'end-to-end' supply chain will be issued next month, The Daily Telegraph reported. A Government source said 'experts in delivery services' were needed. 'At the moment, the management of NHS Test and Trace has been in-house but, as we go into winter, we need experts in this area to take it forward,' they said. Amazon, DHL and other major logistics firms are all reportedly likely to be competing for the huge contract which will be the linchpin of the Health Secretary's promise to deliver 500,000 tests a day by the end of next month. An information notice issued by the Department of Health calls for potential bidders to register their interest in the contract to co-ordinate the testing service's supply change. It says: 'In order to significantly scale up the number of daily tests as well as making the operations more efficient, we are looking for an end-to-end management of all associated supply chain and logistics processes along the chain.' Plans have also been released for a Lighthouse laboratory dealing with testing and a Covid-19 research hub, which could create 1,100 jobs in the North East of England. The new facility would serve the region, as well as northern Cumbria and Yorkshire, and would be the latest expansion of the Government's national Test and Trace programme. The Lighthouse Lab will be based in Gateshead with a specialist innovation lab at the Helix site in Newcastle, focused on developing new approaches to coronavirus science. The project will be a partnership between Newcastle City Council and the Newcastle upon Tyne Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, as well as public health teams, local universities and industry. Deputy chief executive Saffron Cordery said trust leaders were 'increasingly concerned' that testing shortages could put pressure on NHS services and winter preparations due to growing staff absences. 'Trust leaders are concerned that they do not have the detail on why there are shortages, how widespread they are or how long they will last,' she added. Reacting to the latest test and trace figures, Justin Madders, Labour's shadow health minister, said it was a 'huge concern' that the test and trace system performance 'continues to go backwards' and appeared'on the verge of collapse'. He added: 'Perhaps the biggest problem is that people cannot get tested, which means thousands of people are not going into the system in the first place. Ministers must get a grip and fix testing now.'  Dr Mike Skinner, who volunteered to work in a Lighthouse Laboratory dealing with Covid-19 tests, said half the work was involved in sorting the logistics of handling the samples. The reader in virology at Imperial College London told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: 'In the lab, when the testing was upscaled back in March, you really had to get all kinds of sample kits from lots of different producers, there were lots of difficulties in that. 'We had to put half of our staff into handling issues with barcoding, leaks - we actually had to remove the swabs from the tubes so they didn't gum-up some of the robots down the line.' He added: 'It really is very much about logistics.'  Chief of the testing system, Baroness Dido Harding, has admitted that the system is not geared up to cope with the numbers of tests that people are now demanding. Nobody was 'expecting' to see the 'really sizeable increase in demand' for checks, she said yesterday. Baroness Harding's comments, which come despite the return of schools and more people heading back to work, sparked outrage as she told MPs 'none of the modelling' had suggested there would be such a steep uptick in requests. Prime Minister Boris Johnson visits the Jenner Institute at Oxford University, England, today Friday, September 18 Boris Johnson is pictured during a visit to a testing lab in Oxford today. The Jenner Institute is the lab at the forefront of attempts to make a vaccine to prevent Covid-19 The head of the NHS Test and Trace programme blamed the Government's Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (SAGE) for seemingly getting its predictions wrong as she said testing capacity had been built based on the panel's recommendations.  Meanwhile, she revealed that demand for Covid tests is currently up to four times greater than the system's capacity.  What is a Lighthouse Lab? The laboratories are set up to process the swab tests that are used to diagnose people with coronavirus. They contain machines capable of a process called polymerase chain reaction (PCR), which magnifies DNA samples from people's saliva and mucous to look for signs of the virus. Samples taken at swab testing centres are delivered to the labs where technicians analyse the samples and file the result into a database, which then sends the result back to the person who took the test and logs it in the Government's data. Where are the Lighthouse Labs? Who runs the Lighthouse Labs?  The lab system is ultimately controlled by the Department of Health, which hand-picks existing laboratories around the country and pays them to process Covid-19 tests in a standardised way. There is not a threshold a lab must meet to become a Lighthouse Lab, but all are capable of processing tens of thousands of tests per day and have capacity to expand.  No new labs have been built, but institutions at universities and pharmaceutical companies are given new equipment, improved lab spaces and money to hire their own qualified staff to cope with the demand. Some of the labs use existing staff. Labs being used so far include ones at pharmaceutical companies AstraZeneca and GlaxoSmithKline, the universities of Cambridge, Glasgow and Dundee, and the scientific organisations UK Biocentre, Medicines Discovery Catapult and US-based PerkinElmer.   Alongside the Lighthouse Labs, the Government also uses facilities run by Public Health England, the NHS and other smaller universities and institutions known as 'surge labs'. However, while some centres are stretched to the limit trying to deliver, others remain empty, with one worker even pictured falling asleep on the job at a site in Heathrow. There have been numerous reports of staff at deserted walk-in testing centres turning people away if they didn't have an appointment or weren't showing obvious coronavirus symptoms.  It is not clear exactly why the Heathrow site was so empty, however it is a remote drive-in centre where tests are carried out by appointment, involving swabbing through the car window. Officials have blamed the limited capacity of the Lighthouse Labs for slowing down other elements of the testing system. There are currently seven of the facilities up and running, according to the UK Lighthouse Labs Network, in Milton Keynes, Cheshire, Glasgow, Cambridge, Antrim in Northern Ireland, Newport and Loughborough. The lab system is ultimately controlled by the Department of Health, which hand-picks existing laboratories around the country and pays them to process Covid-19 tests in a standardised way. There is not a threshold a lab must meet to become a Lighthouse Lab, but all are capable of processing tens of thousands of tests per day and have capacity to expand.  No new labs have been built, but institutions at universities and pharmaceutical companies are given new equipment, improved lab spaces and money to hire their own qualified staff to cope with the demand. Some of the labs use existing staff. Labs being used so far include ones at pharmaceutical companies AstraZeneca and GlaxoSmithKline, the universities of Cambridge, Glasgow and Dundee, and the scientific organisations UK Biocentre, Medicines Discovery Catapult and US-based PerkinElmer.   Alongside the Lighthouse Labs, the Government also uses facilities run by Public Health England, the NHS and other smaller universities and institutions known as 'surge labs'. New labs are being set up in an ongoing expansion of the programme, with sites expected to open soon in Newcastle and Bracknell, Berkshire.  Newly-opened labs do not run at full capacity straight away and those are not expected to be working in full swing until February (Bracknell) and March (Newcastle), when they will be able to process a combined 120,000 tests per day.   Health Secretary Matt Hancock has admitted up to 250,000 Britons could be waiting for their Covid-19 test result because of a mammoth backlog in Government laboratories, which has meant tens of thousands of swabs are being held up in a process that is only supposed to take 24 hours. In response to criticism from furious MPs this week, he said there is a hold-up of 'less than a day's capacity' caused by 'operational challenges' in laboratories. The Department of Health claims it can process 245,000 swab tests per day. The backlog has reportedly been caused by staff finishing temporary contracts and surging demand as cases continue to increase across the UK – and one scientist claimed the Government's claim of how many tests it can process may not actually be true.  Whitehall sources say the actual cause of the crisis is a 'secret', while one leading scientist dismissed claims of a staffing shortage and said labs appear to have enough technicians.  Jonathan Ashworth, Shadow Health Secretary for Labour, claimed the system was in difficulty because post-graduate science students who had been working in the labs over the summer were now leaving. He said in Parliament today: 'Extra demand on the system was inevitable. So why didn't [Matt Hancock] use the summer to significantly expand NHS capacity and fix contact tracing? 'And just as demand is increasing, the ability to process tests is diminishing. Post-grad students working in the Lighthouse Labs are returning to university, so why did we not plan for these inevitable staff shortages in the Lighthouse Labs?' An expert in the field said many technicians had been drafted in on intense short-term contracts during the crisis but were now going back to their everyday jobs. Doris-Ann Williams, chief executive of the British In Vitro Diagnostics Association (BIVDA), told The Telegraph: 'People worked really, really hard for the first three or four months.  'I think everyone just ran out of steam, needed to recharge their batteries.  'It could be that it's just getting back up to strength again after everyone has had a bit of a break in August.' But one leading scientist was not convinced that the problem was quite as simple as 'lab capacity'. Professor Alan McNally, a University of Birmingham expert who helped set up the Government's Milton Keynes Lighthouse Lab, said a 'perfect storm' of events have crashed the testing system. He told BBC Breakfast there were 'clearly underlying issues which nobody wants to tell us about'. He said: 'The labs are still fully staffed, they are still churning through huge amounts of samples per day - the same number as they were a couple of months ago - so there are problems elsewhere in the chain... 'I think this is multi-factorial. I think you almost have a perfect storm of events that have come together to almost essentially crash the testing system. 'I think there is a surge in demand [and] I think our stated capacity is very different from actually how many tests can be run in a given day.'   Members of the public are pictured queueing outside a coronavirus testing centre in Edmonton, North London, as people across the country say they are struggling to get hold of tests Coronavirus testing centres have been pictured empty today despite hundreds of people saying they cannot book an appointment online. Meanwhile the company that runs them, Sodexo, is recruiting more staff and officials will say only that they are diverting capacity to badly-hit areas (Pictured: A test site in Leeds)  Concerns have been echoed by Nicola Sturgeon, who yesterday said she still has concerns about the amount of time being taken to process coronavirus tests at UK Government laboratories. The First Minister again spoke of pressures on the testing system in England which have caused a delay in people getting results. Her comments came as a UK Government minister insisted coronavirus testing capacity in Scotland is 'increasing enormously'. Dozens of drivers turned up at a test site to find there were no staff to swab them, on the day the health secretary announced tougher coronavirus measures for people in the north-east. People who had booked a test on Thursday at Doxford Park, an out-of-town business park in Sunderland, were told by the media they would not be tested, as there were no officials there to inform them. Some had been turned away on the approach to the centre by security guards, who told them the computers had crashed and to try again later. HGV mechanic Brad Cockburn, 28, made a 100-mile round trip from Bedale, North Yorkshire, only to find there were no staff, not even a tent or other infrastructure, at the site on the out-of-town business park. He said: 'There's no organisation, it's piss-poor performance as usual.' Rob Reid, a 58-year-old cash and carry manager from Sunderland, booked for 3.45pm, only to find there were no staff. He said: 'It annoys me. My concern is about my health and it comes across that the Government is not that concerned, when they are taking bookings on the NHS website and there's nobody here to do it.' Iain Stewart also said that if decisions need to be made over who should be the priority for testing in Scotland, that would be for the Scottish Government. Coronavirus tests in England are to be rationed as the Government at Westminster struggles to get to grips with soaring demand. UK Health Secretary Matt Hancock said there will be testing 'prioritisation' for people with acute clinical need and those in social care settings, as he acknowledged 'operational challenges' in the system. First Minister Ms Sturgeon stressed on Tuesday there was 'not by and large' an issue with getting tests north of the border. But she said 'constraints' at the UK Government's Lighthouse laboratories meant results were being delayed - an issue she has raised in talks with Mr Hancock and Dido Harding, the head of the UK testing system. Speaking at her briefing on Wednesday, the First Minister said: 'Although we continue to have some concerns about the time being taken to process tests in the Lighthouse laboratories, there are no signs at this stage of people in Scotland facing widespread difficulties in booking a test.' She said the backlog in testing is now reducing and her Government will 'monitor these issues very closely'. She added she is considering if the regular testing of care home staff - which is currently dealt with by the Lighthouse laboratory system - could be taken over by the NHS in some areas. Ms Sturgeon said: 'The reason we have been looking at that is to see if we can free up capacity within the UK system, given the pressure it has been experiencing.' Mr Stewart stressed the UK Government, which he said is responsible for the majority of testing in Scotland, is acting on the problems. Speaking on BBC Radio Scotland, he said the Government is 'increasing the overall capacity' in the testing system. He insisted it is right that the UK Government had acted to prioritise access for testing in England to key workers and those in care homes. Asked what should happen in Scotland, Mr Stewart said: 'That is for the Scottish Government to determine. 'What we are doing as a UK Government is increasing enormously the availability of testing in Scotland.    'I am glad that the Scottish Government are increasing their side of testing but the majority of testing in Scotland is run by UK bodies, and we are expanding that. There will be another walk- through centre opening in Glasgow in the next few days, so that availability will be there. 'At this point we just ought to say a huge thank-you to the people at the Lighthouse lab in Glasgow who are working 24/7. When they first started off they were doing about 40 tests a day, they're now doing tens of thousands.' The new walk-in testing centre at the Arc Sport Centre in Glasgow is due to open on Friday afternoon, the Scotland Office said. With a walk-in centre already open in St Andrews, Ms Sturgeon said plans are 'on track' for a further four such facilities to open in the next two weeks as part of a move to 'establish 20 more walk-in centres across Scotland over the autumn and winter'. The 90-minute coronavirus test that's 94% accurate: On-the-spot Covid-19 screening that delivers result in less than two hours could transform diagnosis this winter, experts say An on-the-spot Covid test which delivers a result in 90 minutes could transform diagnosis in NHS hospitals this winter, experts say. A study published last night revealed the CovidNudge test – a machine the size of a shoebox – does not deliver any ‘false positive’ results, meaning all those who test positive are carrying the virus. It has a ‘specificity’ of 94 per cent – meaning 6 per cent of those given the all-clear will actually have the virus – but this is far better than the 70 per cent specificity rate seen with the standard Covid test. The NHS has already ordered 5,000 machines and 5.8 million testing cartridges, at the cost of about £30 per test.  The CovidNudge is a machine the size of a shoebox and delivers results in 90 minutes The NHS has already ordered 5,000 machines and 5.8 million testing cartridges Eventually the machines could be used in schools, theatres and even private homes. They were used by the London Symphony Orchestra last month to give musicians the all-clear to perform at the Proms. Some 10,000 people have been tested on the NHS so far, with a major roll-out due in the coming weeks. The machine, designed by Imperial College London spinout company DnaNudge, is particularly useful for hospitals because it can be used at a patient’s bedside. Because the turnaround time is so quick, doctors can make rapid treatment decisions without waiting hours or days for laboratory results. The process involves collecting nasal and throat swabs and placing them on to a cartridge which goes into the machine – called a ‘NudgeBox’ – for analysis. The device then looks for traces of genetic material belonging to the coronavirus. Each machine has the ability to process up to 15 tests on the spot each day. Professor Graham Cooke, of Imperial, whose evaluation of the machine was published in the Lancet Microbe journal, said: ‘This test is particularly well suited for clinical settings when you are trying to make a rapid decision for a patient.  ‘For example, we had a patient from last week who had a new diagnosis of Covid. ‘We were able to get the diagnosis confirmed within two hours of arriving and start remdesivir and dexamethasone [drugs used to treat severe Covid-19] on that basis.’ The test is being used across eight London hospitals and is expected to be rolled out at a national level. Professor Cooke said there was no practical reason why it could not be used in someone’s home, but for now manufacturing was being targeted at healthcare use. And while the machine excels at speed, accuracy and ease of use, it is not the answer to the Government’s current testing problems, because each machine can process only one test at a time. ‘It is not the answer if you need millions of tests a day,’ Professor Cooke said. The team is also modifying the device so the test can simultaneously assess other respiratory diseases. Dr Bob Klaber, director of strategy at Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust, said: ‘Getting accurate results back to clinicians and their patients as quickly as possible makes a huge difference to how we safely manage clinical pathways and we are very much looking forward to rolling this out more widely.’ Professor Chris Toumazou, co-founder of DnaNudge, added: ‘The platform is well suited to testing in primary care and community settings with potential for use in non-healthcare settings such as care homes, schools, transport hubs, offices, and, to help bring the arts back, in theatres and venues.’ Baroness Dido Harding (right) was grilled by MPs Demand for Covid tests is up to four times the system's capacity, Baroness Harding admitted today. The Tory peer revealed the staggering mismatch between the number of people wanting tests and the ability to carry them out as she claimed 27 per cent have no symptoms. Extraordinarily. she said no-one had 'expected' the 'sizeable' increase in demand - although it was widely predicted, blaming SAGE for getting their estimates wrong. Lady Harding has been hauled before MPs to explain the shambles that has left thousands struggling to get checked. She told the Science Committee that she did not have precise numbers for how many people wanted tests. But she said phone calls and website visits suggested it was 'three to four times the number of tests we have available'. Brazenly passing the buck for the chaos, Lady Harding said: 'We built our capacity plans based on SAGE modelling for what we should be preparing for in the Autumn.' Lady Harding confirmed the capacity now for diagnostic tests is just under 243,000 per day - a figure that the government has failed to publish for more than a week. Thousands of tests are being sent abroad to be processed, she said. She said the government was 'on track' to increase capacity to 500,000 tests a day by the end of October - although that would cover all types of tests, not just for whether people currently have coronavirus. And she conceded that will not be enough. 'I am certain we will need more as we go beyond the end of October,' she said.  
Shock jock with a 'croaky throat' is urged to get tested for COVID-19 A radio host was told to get tested for COVID-19 by health authorities because he had a 'croaky throat'. Queensland Health Minister Steven Miles gave the advice to 97.3FM host Terry Hansen live on air last month. Mr Miles was responding to a question from Hansen's co-host Robin Bailey around whether her colleague should even be at work.  He was exhibiting no other symptoms. 'We'd really love if he would, we'd love if he'd go and get a test and then go home, even though it's probably not COVID,' Mr Miles said.  'Even if it isn't, it really helps us keep our testing rates up and it's those testing rates that can help us make sure that there isn't other symptomatic COVID out there that we don't know about.' But when the state's Premier Annastacia Palaszczuk experienced similar symptoms she waited two days before getting a test done.  97.3FM host Terry Hansen (pictured left with co-hosts Robin Bailey and Bob Gallagher) was told to get tested because of a 'croaky throat' Queensland Health Minister Steven Miles gave the advice to Terry Hansen (pictured)  live on air last month.  Palaszczuk apologised for losing her voice during an online forum on Monday night, reported the Courier Mail. At the time she insisted she was suffering from voice strain due to last week's parliamentary sitting. On Tuesday she went to the funeral of Mackay MP Tim Mulherin's. The following day she attended events across regional Queensland then visited a doctor after arriving in Brisbane on Wednesday night.  Her COVID-19 test came back negative on Thursday. Queensland Deputy Premier and Health Minister Steven Miles (pictured) had told a radio host to go home and get tested after he experienced a croaky throat   Ms Palaszczuk has since said it was very clear she had just lost her voice.   But when the state's Premier Annastacia Palaszczuk (pictured) experienced similar symptoms she waited two days before getting a test done Treasurer Cameron Dick told reporters the premier's results had come back negative. 'The premier lost her voice ... she had a COVID test that came back negative, so she's done the right thing, she's listened to the health advice, she's obeyed the science and the science that informs the health advice and that's the appropriate thing for Queenslanders to do,' Mr Dick said. LNP health spokeswoman Ros Bates accused the premier of being reckless and not taking her own health advice. 'I'm glad to hear the Premier tested negative to COVID, but it raises many questions,' Ms Bates said. 'The official advice is that if people are feeling unwell they should get tested. 'It appears the Premier has done neither and contradicted her own advice after being tested on Wednesday night – two days after having symptoms.'  Meanwhile Chief Health Officer Jeannette Young confirmed on Friday a croaky throat doesn't warrant a COVID-19 test. 'She was ultra-cautious, and that is what I ask of every Queenslander,' she said. 'Although there was no need for her to do it she went and got herself tested.'  She said residents need to look at their own personal circumstances when considering whether or not they should get a health check.  'But I would encourage them to as the Premier did, that if you've got a symptom it's a good idea to go and get tested rather than think through, 'Is it COVID, isn't it COVID?', just get yourself tested,' she said.  Meanwhile Chief Health Officer Jeannette Young said a croaky throat doesn't warrant a COVID-19 test (pictured: nurses conduct testing at a drive through clinic in Brisbane)
Parents knew child had Covid and sent him to school anyway, mayor says Officials have claimed that a Massachusetts high school student was sent to his first day of school despite his parents knowing that he had coronavirus.  The teenager was tested for the virus on September 9 and his positive result came back on September 11, the mayor of Attleboro, a city which lies southwest of Boston, said.  Despite this, his parents let the child attend his first day at Attleboro High School on September 14. Officials have claimed that an Attleboro High School student was sent to his first day of school despite his parents knowing that he had coronavirus Subsequently around 30 students who came into contact with the student at the school have been placed under a two-week quarantine.  The school did not identify the student and family. 'There's no question about whether or not the parent knew,' Mayor Paul Heroux said.  According to Heroux, a public health nurse had spoken to the family and they had confirmed that they were aware their child had contracted Covid-19 days before they sent him for his first day of school.  The mayor has asked families to keep their children home if they tested positive for coronavirus or are waiting for test results. 'I knew that we were going to end up having some cases, but I didn't expect they would be on the first day,' the high school's principal, Bill Runey, said, as quoted by NBC News.  'There's no question about whether or not the parent knew,' Mayor Paul Heroux, pictured above, said 'Long story short, rumors started circulating around town, so someone contacted the bureau of health here in Attleboro and did some checking and found out that it was true, that he had tested positive.' The 30 students who came into contact with the student are being monitored to see if they develop symptoms of Covid-19.  Mr Runey said that the school's 'contact-tracing protocols' had helped identify and track down those who could have caught the virus.   'Thirty is still a lot, but if we didn't have greater degree of certainty with seating charts and things like that, we would have had to err on the side of caution for a lot more kids,' he said.
Matt Hancock says Covid hospital admissions are doubling every 8 days Matt Hancock today warned the number of coronavirus patients being admitted to hospital is doubling every eight days as he revealed ministers need to 'take action' because the outbreak is accelerating. The Health Secretary pleaded with the public to 'come together to tackle this virus' and admitted that a new national crackdown could be on the cards because it 'isn't just cases' that are increasing.  Government statistics show 194 newly-infected Covid-19 patients were admitted to hospitals in England on Tuesday, compared to just 84 eight days ago and just 38 on August 30. It means 154 patients are needing NHS care each day, on average — triple the figure of 52 on September 1. More than 3,000 people each day were being admitted to NHS hospitals during the peak of the first wave in April. Analysis suggests, at the current trend, it would take little more than three weeks for daily admissions to top 2,000. And a top infectious disease expert today warned that it is 'plausible' the doubling rate of every eight days could continue. Professor Paul Hunter, of University of East Anglia, told MailOnline the number of admissions could surpass the daily rate seen in March and April in just a month's time.  Cases have spiked over the same time frame, with another 3,395 infections recorded yesterday — a 33 per cent rise in a week. Deaths are also starting to creep up, with the average number of patients dying each day now standing at 14 — up from seven a fortnight ago.  More aggressive measures, including a national 'circuit breaker', are on the cards to stop the growth of the outbreak. The move could come as soon as next week, with pubs, restaurants and hotels facing being shut to prevent 'significant' casualties. More than 1,000 patients were dying during the darkest days of Britain's crisis, when 3,000 new hospital admissions were being recorded each day.  But experts insist a second wave of Covid-19 in Britain would not be nearly as bad as the first. One reason for this prediction is the fact that we now know so much more about the virus. This includes medical advances, such as the discovery that steroid treatment dexamethasone can cut the risk of death from coronavirus by a third. Officials also say that local lockdowns – and the beleaguered test and trace service – have successfully prevented recent outbreaks from spreading more widely. It comes as hospitals have been warned they must clear beds and brace themselves for a rise in coronavirus patients in the next few weeks.   MPs in London have been informed of plans to increase 'step down' beds in the capital, it was reported today. The beds will be made available to coronavirus patients who no longer need any hospital treatment, but can recover from the disease while isolating.     Hospitals cancelled thousands of surgeries like hip operations and cancer treatment  to free up space for infected patients at the peak of the crisis, causing the NHS to have a record-high waiting list for routine treatment. The drive to free up beds in the first wave also saw coronavirus-infected patients discharged into care homes, where the virus was allowed to spread.    Analysis suggests, at the current trend, it would take little more than three weeks for daily admissions to top 2,000 The Health Secretary pleaded with the public to 'come together to tackle this virus' and admitted that a new national crackdown could be on the cards because it 'isn't just cases' that are increasing Matt Hancock today admitted that a new national crackdown is on the cards as he warned infections are 'accelerating across the country' and more people will die. The Health Secretary pleaded with the public to 'come together to tackle this virus' as ministers consider imposing draconian restrictions for a fortnight in a 'circuit break' to stop the spread. The move could come as soon as next week, with pubs, restaurants and hotels facing being shut to prevent 'significant' casualties. In a round of interviews this morning, Mr Hancock said a national lockdown was the 'last line of defence'. But he warned that it was a 'big moment for the country' and the situation was 'deadly serious', with cases now doubling every eight days. Unless the 'Rule of Six' restrictions worked more would have to be done, he warned. 'The virus is clearly accelerating across the country,' Mr Hancock told Sky News. 'We have got to take the necessary action to keep people safe. We will do what it takes to keep people safe.' It comes as 10million people are told to follow new lockdown rules as Lancashire is placed under curfew alongside the North East. The Government's chief science and medical officers have warned that another serious outbreak of coronavirus could lead to a significant number of deaths by the end of next month. In an interview with BBC Breakfast this morning, Mr Hancock warned that it was 'absolutely critical' that people continued to follow the basic rules with regard to coronavirus. He said: 'We have seen an acceleration in the number of cases over the last couple of weeks and we’ve also sadly seen that the number of people hospitalised with coronavirus is doubling about every eight days, so we do need to take action.' The government's most-up-to-date data shows 194 Covid-19 patients in England were admitted to hospital on September 15 — at an average of 154 a day over the past week. For comparison, the rolling seven-day average had dipped to as low as 45 on August 22, when just 25 hospital admissions were recorded across the country. At the height of the pandemic at the start of April, the average number of daily admissions was 2,700. Britain's lockdown and tough social distancing measures allowed the rate to plummet to below 1,000 by the start of May. Department of Health chiefs say data is not updated every day by all four nations and the figures are not comparable. For instance, Wales include suspected Covid-19 patients while all the other nations include only confirmed cases. Professor Hunter told MailOnline that the spike in admissions is 'predictable' and 'expected', given the spike in cases over the past few weeks. He added: 'It's worrying that it's going up but the big concern is how many hospital admissions we will end up seeing.  'I suspect it will carry on... but I suspect we won't see it doubling quite as rapidly because, often, these things start off quite fast and then they tail off after a little while. 'It doesn't always tail off, but ultimately it does because if it carries on doubling [at that speed], then soon every single person on the planet will be on hospital. So it has to tail off eventually.  'The issue is when does it start tailing off? I have no way of knowing.' Professor Hunter added that it was 'plausible' England's hospital admissions could get up the levels seen in April but admitted he think it's probably won't happen. He said: 'The evidence is older people are still, sort of, social distancing themselves more than other groups, and they're the group most likely to get hospitalised. There's also a smaller pool to get infected and be hospitalised than we saw back in March and April. 'But it may well continue, and it's plausible that England could well in a month's time be surpassing that figure. But I hope not.'  It comes as hospitals have been warned they must clear beds and brace themselves for a rise in coronavirus patients in the next few weeks. One MP who has seen the plans told the Telegraph: 'I was told hospitals have reserved beds for people coming out of hospital who need somewhere to re-cover. 'At the start of lockdown they were having to send people back to care homes or back to other facilities, with dire consequences, so they've booked places in respite care or empty care homes, so people will go out of hospital, but won't return to their normal place of living.'  Another source said that councils have also been asked to find extra beds   It comes amid more testing chaos yesterday as Baroness Dido Harding, head of NHS Test and Trace, revealed that demand for coronavirus tests is currently up to four times greater than the system's capacity.     By Lizzie Deane for the Daily Mail THE UK'S test and trace system could be outsourced to a delivery giant such as Amazon, it was reported last night. Ministers are said to be planning to hand over the running of the testing service to a logistics firm as the system struggles to cope with increased demand for tests. A invitation to bid for a contract covering the management of the entire 'end-to-end' supply chain will be issued next month, The Daily Telegraph reported. A Government source said 'experts in delivery services' were needed. 'At the moment, the management of NHS Test and Trace has been in-house but, as we go into winter, we need experts in this area to take it forward,' they said. Amazon, DHL and other major logistics firms are all reportedly likely to be competing for the huge contract which will be the linchpin of the Health Secretary's promise to deliver 500,000 tests a day by the end of next month. An information notice issued by the Department of Health calls for potential bidders to register their interest in the contract to co-ordinate the testing service's supply change. It says: 'In order to significantly scale up the number of daily tests as well as making the operations more efficient, we are looking for an end-to-end management of all associated supply chain and logistics processes along the chain.' The government's testing tzar also blamed the Government's Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (SAGE) for seemingly getting its predictions wrong as she said testing capacity had been built based on the panel's recommendations.  Last night it emerged the country's faltering testing system could be outsourced to Amazon, as reported by The Telegraph. A source said: 'At the moment the man- agement of NHS Test and Trace has been in-house but as we go into winter we need experts in this area to take it forward.'     The government is also expected to announce tighter restrictions on care home visits in areas with high numbers of coronavirus cases are expected to be announced by the Government in its winter action plan. Care homes in areas subject to local lockdowns may be advised to temporarily restrict visits in all but end-of-life situations, it is understood. For parts of the country where there is no local lockdown, but where community transmission is a cause for concern, an option officials are considering is advising that visits are restricted to one designated visitor per resident. The Government will set out further details on Friday in its social care action plan to help fight the spread of coronavirus over winter. As part of the plan, care homes will receive free protective equipment and providers must stop 'all but essential' movement of staff between homes, the Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC) said. This will be supported by an additional £546 million announced on Thursday as part of the extended infection control fund. A new dashboard will monitor care home infections and help local government and providers respond quickly. And a chief nurse for adult social care will be appointed to represent social care nurses and provide 'clinical leadership'. Local authorities and the Care Quality Commission will be asked to take 'strong action' in instances where providers are not restricting staff movement adequately. The DHSC said this could include restricting a service's operation and issuing warning notices. Health and Social Care Secretary Matt Hancock said: 'We are entering a critical phase in our fight against coronavirus with winter on the horizon. 'Our priority over the next six months is to make sure we protect those most vulnerable receiving care and our incredibly hard-working workforce by limiting the spread of the virus and preventing a second spike. Boris Johnson on dealing with the 'inevitable' second wave Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg has died at age 87 People party in street in Nottingham despite second wave imminent Couple built natural swimming pool in back garden in two years Birmingham freshers enjoy night out in Birmingham city centre Daredevil climber spotted on Paris skyscraper bare hands Lord McColl says don't blame COVID rates on Government Horrifying moment toddlers are crushed by falling cabinet drawers Drinkers in Newcastle partake in messy night out prior to lockdown Paraglider pulls off perfect ground spiral manoeuvre Listen at an alligator inhaling helium in the name of science Joan Collins claims late sister sent her sign as house had power cut Boris Johnson on dealing with the 'inevitable' second wave Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg has died at age 87 People party in street in Nottingham despite second wave imminent Couple built natural swimming pool in back garden in two years Birmingham freshers enjoy night out in Birmingham city centre Daredevil climber spotted on Paris skyscraper bare hands Lord McColl says don't blame COVID rates on Government Horrifying moment toddlers are crushed by falling cabinet drawers Drinkers in Newcastle partake in messy night out prior to lockdown Paraglider pulls off perfect ground spiral manoeuvre Listen at an alligator inhaling helium in the name of science Joan Collins claims late sister sent her sign as house had power cut 'This winter plan gives providers the certainty they need when it comes to PPE and provides additional support to help care homes to limit the movement of staff, stop the spread of coronavirus and save lives. 'We will be monitoring the implementation of this carefully and will be swift in our actions to protect residents and colleagues across the country.' It comes as Age UK said some older people are 'dying of sadness' because they have been cut off from loved ones over a long period of time. Charity director Caroline Abrahams said it is important the plan achieves an 'appropriate balance' between ensuring infection control and allowing residents to keep in contact with loved ones. She said: 'All in all what we have seen so far is promising, but we will await with interest to read what the plan says about visiting in care homes. 'With Covid-19 cases on the rise and winter on the way it's right that every activity that could potentially place residents at risk is considered very carefully, including visiting, but any sense of a 'blanket ban' would be highly inappropriate, however anxious we may all feel. 'Risks, capabilities and opportunities of all kinds differ hugely across care homes and for the sake of older people this enormous variation must be taken fully into account.' Liz Kendall, Labour's shadow social care minister, welcomed the appointment of a chief nurse and increased funding. She continued: 'But the real test of this plan is whether the Government delivers on weekly testing of all care staff - first promised in July but still not delivered, with serious concerns about delays in getting results back. 'Ensuring families can visit their loved ones is also critical, as without this care home residents can end up fading fast.'  
Britain may not see a 'double whammy' of Covid-19 and flu this winter Britain may not see a 'double-whammy' of coronavirus and flu infections this winter because social distancing measures designed to control Covid-19 have prevented influenza from spreading, experts have said.  Flu infections during the cold long months in the southern hemisphere are a canary in a coalmine for how hard the NHS will be hit by outbreaks, and are used to design the preventative flu vaccine. But this year Australia, which has similar flu outbreaks to Britain, has seen influenza infections plunge to historic lows. After Sydney declared a lockdown on March 23, flu cases dropped from 5,895 to 308 in April, and to a low of 121 in August. Professor Paul Hunter, an infectious disease expert at the University of East Anglia, told MailOnline Britain 'almost certainly' will not see two consecutive waves of flu and coronavirus.  'There's been virtually no influenza around in the southern hemisphere during their flu season this year and the reason for that is obvious,' he said. 'The things we're doing to control Covid are even more effective on influenza.' It comes as the director of the US national institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, Dr Anthony Fauci, said the states may not see a 'double-whammy' infection wave. And it comes amid warnings that if both hit at the same time they could cripple more than a hundred NHS trusts, which wouldn't be able to cope with the normal winter demand and level of coronavirus infections seen in April, at the peak of the pandemic.  Australia, which faces a similar flu outbreak to the UK, saw very few flu infections this winter. This suggests the UK may dodge a 'double-whammy' of coronavirus and the flu Influenza, or the flu, is a highly contagious respiratory illness caused by influenza viruses. It is more common during winter.  Symptoms can include fever and chills, a cough, sore throat and a runny or stuffy nose. Muscle aches, joint pains, headaches and fatigue are also common. Nausea, vomiting and diarrhoea are more common in children than adults. Some symptoms may last for more than a week. Medical help should be sought if there is a shortness of breath or rapid breathing, chest pain, sudden dizziness or persistent vomiting. Source:  New South Wales Government Speaking to MailOnline, Professor Hunter said although it was likely that Britain will not be hit by a 'double-whammy', the situation remains hard to predict. 'There is a reluctance to go to the degree of lockdown that we had early on in the year,' he said. 'Whether that and the continuing social isolation - whether that is enough to suppress a seasonal flu - is not 100 per cent certain.'  'Schools are going back and influenza does spread quite rapidly through them. We can't rule it out but it won't be anywhere near as bad as a normal flu season.' He warned that where flu does spread it may prove more lethal if it infects someone who has also suffered from coronavirus, adding: 'One of the impacts of ordinary flu is it kills people with damaged lungs and older people. 'Covid-19 does lead to some residual lung damage. And it's quite plausible that while you get flu and you're recovering from Covid-19 you could, but we don't know for certain (that would be the impact).' Dr Ed Hill, a post-doctoral researcher working on modelling the spread of disease at the University of Warwick, told MailOnline measures to inhibit the spread of coronavirus will also 'disrupt' influenza transmission. 'The combined interaction of non-pharmaceutical interventions, targeted at reducing Covid-19 transmission but also impacting influenza transmission, and a wide-spread and intensive vaccination campaign may reduce the scale of seasonal influenza this winter,' he said. This year Australia's flu infections have plummeted from a peak 7,172 in February before falling sharply after the country's lockdown was announced, and reaching a low of 121 in August. So far this year the country has recorded only 21,000 influenza infections, fourteen times lower than last year's figure at 313,000.   Dr Simon Clarke, associate professor in cellular microbiology at the University of Reading, told MailOnline it was 'entirely possible' that the UK will avoid a major flu season. 'If you wash your hands more, don't mix so much, don't touch door-handles, railings quite so much, then you are going to reduce your risk of picking up the flu,' he said.    'Australia is a less densely populated country but they still have problems with flu. Normally we get the flu they have, but that's not always the case. 'The movement of people around the world is much lower than it usually is so there's much less opportunity to bring those strains of flu up from Australia. 'There's stuff circulating here all the time so what we had last year could come back.' But he also sounded a note of caution, saying the return of schools means flu and coronavirus may be able to spread. 'If you look at schools there's still a lot of evidence of the usual coughs and colds going around. So, if they're spreading, (other viruses) could spread just as well.' Dr Fauci said today it is 'entirely possible' that the US may dodge a 'double whammy' infection wave. 'Despite the fear that we are going to have a double whammy, namely flu season superimposed upon a continuation of Covid-19, that may not be the case. 'If extensive community mitigation measures continue throughout the fall, influenza activity in the United States might remain low and the season might be blunted or delayed.'  The Government is appealing for people to get the flu jab this year (stock image) The Government has launched a campaign appealing for Britons to get the flu vaccine this winter, to help stave off any spread of the disease which could overwhelm the health service. A report published earlier this month warned more than a hundred NHS Trusts could be overwhelmed if they have to handle winter pressures combined with the same coronavirus pressures seen in April. It was revealed by comparing the average number of beds needed between December 2019 and February 2020 and the number of beds required for Covid-19 patients in April. Four out of the five most at risk trusts were in London with one, Walsall Healthcare, based near Birmingham. Hospitalisation rates for coronavirus are doubling every eight days as the Government brings new lockdown restrictions in. From Monday it became illegal to meet in groups larger than six people in the UK. More than 9.2million people have been placed under tougher restrictions in a bid to curb the spread of the virus after the North East was added to the ever-growing list yesterday. The deadly flu virus attacked more than one-third of the world's population, and within months had killed more than 50 million people – three times as many as World War I – and did it more quickly than any other illness in recorded history. Most influenza outbreaks disproportionately kill juvenile, elderly, or already weakened patients; in contrast the 1918 pandemic predominantly killed previously healthy young adults. Red Cross volunteers fighting against the Spanish flu epidemic  in United States in 1918 To maintain morale, wartime censors minimized early reports of illness and mortality in Germany, Britain, France, and the United States. However, newspapers were free to report the epidemic's effects in Spain, creating a false impression of Spain as being especially hard hit - and leading to the pandemic's nickname Spanish flu. The close quarters and massive troop movements of World War I hastened the pandemic and probably both increased transmission and augmented mutation, researchers believe. The global mortality rate from the 1918/1919 pandemic is not known, but an estimated 10% to 20% of those who were infected died, with estimates of the total number of deaths ranging from 50-100 million people.
Wuhan coronavirus nurse and her husband are crushed to death by seats A Wuhan nurse and her husband have died in a tragic accident while watching a performance dedicated to coronavirus health workers at a local theatre. The unnamed medic and her partner were trapped between rotating chairs after trying to rescue their son who slipped under the seat, according to reports. The boy was said to have survived after falling onto a safety net underneath, but his parents were crushed to death. A Wuhan nurse and her husband have died in a tragic accident while watching a performance dedicated to coronavirus health workers at a local theatre (pictured in handout) The unnamed medic and her partner were trapped between rotating chairs after trying to rescue their son who slipped under the seat, according to reports. The picture released by the Wuhan theatre shows the venue where the nurse and her husband were killed in an accident The nurse reportedly worked at Wuhan Tongji Hospital and fought on the frontline against the coronavirus outbreak in the former COVID-19 epicentre. In this file photo, a medical worker is treating a coronavirus patient at the Union Hospital affiliated to Wuhan Tongji Medical College  The nurse reportedly worked at Wuhan Tongji Hospital and fought on the frontline against the coronavirus outbreak in the former COVID-19 epicentre. The couple’s deaths also sparked outrage online after Wuhan authorities confirmed the incident on Thursday, 12 days after it occurred on September 6. The officials did not specify details of the accident, claiming they had carried out emergency rescue and ‘properly handled the aftermath of the incident’. The tragedy was first brought to light by a social media user, who claimed to be a family friend of the victims, in a post on Twitter-like Weibo. The nurse and her husband took their four-year-old son to watch a performance celebrating coronavirus health workers at the Han Show Theatre in Wuhan on the evening of September 6, the post claimed. The modern venue with a water-surrounding stage can host up to 2,000 viewers with modified chairs that can rotate and elevate, according to its website. The nurse and her husband took their four-year-old son to watch a performance celebrating coronavirus health workers at the Han Show Theatre (pictured) in Wuhan September 6 The tragedy was first brought to light by a social media user, who claimed to be a family friend of the victims, in a post on Twitter-like Weibo. A medical worker wearing a face mask looks on at Tongji Hospital in Wuhan, China's central Hubei province on September 3 Chinese President Xi Jinping (centre) awards medal to traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) expert Zhang Boli (left) during a meeting commending role models in the country's fight against the COVID-19 epidemic at the Great Hall of the People (GHOP) in Beijing  Some of the seats move like a fan opening and closing to give the audience the best view of onstage effects, a staff member told The Beijing News. Before the show was about to end, the boy fell under the rotating seat as he stood up preparing to leave. The parents tried to catch their son before they were both caught between the moving chairs and crushed to death, the web user said. The boy suffered some injuries while the nurse and her husband were pronounced dead after they were rushed to a hospital. The post is believed to have been published on September 8 when Beijing held a special event during which President Xi honoured the 'heroes' of China's 'people's war' against COVID-19. It wrote: ‘Today is the national honouring assembly, but this incident has yet to be seen on the news.’ Chinese President Xi Jinping is pictured standing with Chinese medical expert Zhong Nanshan (pictured left) after awarding him a medal at an event to honour some of those involved in China's fight against COVID-19 at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing on September 8 Wuhan officials said they were still investigating the causes of the incident while the theatre had reached a compensation agreement with the family. The company Wanda Group has fired two of its employees since the accident, it said on Friday. Angered by the government’s late and vague announcement, web users called for a thorough investigation by the authorities. One commenter wrote: ‘This is really quite ironic. Our [medical] fighters returned safely from the frontline and they were crushed to death between seats during the celebration.’ Another said: ‘I wanted to find out why the accident happened, but now I’m more concerned about how it was only reported after so many days? What was the media doing? Even after the pandemic they still couldn’t stop covering up. Disappointed.’ A third person replied: ‘Who would have thought that a child would become an orphan after watching a performance? High-tech things are good, but safety issues must be carefully considered.’
Biden slams AG Bill Barr as 'sick' for comparing lockdowns to slavery Democratic nominee Joe Biden went after Attorney General Bill Barr for saying that coronavirus lockdown orders were the 'greatest intrusion on civil liberties in American history' since slavery - and called Donald Trump's handling of Covid 'close to criminal.' 'Quite frankly they're sick,' Biden remarked of Barr's comments at a Thursday night CNN town hall with Anderson Cooper, held just outside his hometown of Scranton, PA. 'I never, ever thought I would see such a thoroughly, totally irresponsible administration.'  Biden said he was in disbelief that Barr would almost equate 'following the recommendations of the scientific community' to save lives during the coronavirus crisis to 'people being put in chains.'  'You lost your freedom because he didn't act,' Biden said - that comment likely intended for his political rival, President Donald Trump.   'You've got to level with the American people, shoot from the shoulder. There's never been a time when they've have not been able to step up,' Biden said. 'This president should step down,' the Democratic nominee added. And he seized on the Bob Woodward tapes revealing Trump calling the virus 'deadly stuff' and admitting he liked 'playing it down' and said: 'He knew it and he did nothing. It's close to criminal.' The former vice president said, in contrast, that he'd consider fining people on federal property - which is in the president's jurisdiction - for not wearing masks, after having already called for a nationwide mask mandate, which he'd have to implement by putting pressure on governors.  'If you're on federal property you must wear a mask,' he said. 'And we could have a fine for them not doing it.'  The town hall featured a number of people who experienced loss - a Republican nurse whose police officer husband died from cancer contracted after cleaning up Ground Zero post-9/11, an immunocompromised teacher whose wive lost her mother to COVID-19. Unlike the ABC News town hall earlier in the week with Trump, it did not feature solely undecided voters, and included questions from explicit Biden and Trump supporters.  The event opened with a woman who lost her mother to the coronavirus.          Democratic nominee Joe Biden went after President Donald Trump's Attorney General Bill Barr who said hat coronavirus lockdown orders were the 'greatest intrusion on civil liberties in American history' since slavery 'You've lost your freedom because he didn't act,' Joe Biden said blasting President Donald Trump's inaction on the coronavirus during Thursday night's CNN town hall outside of his hometown of Scranton, Pennsylvania  Joe Biden (left) told Anderson Cooper (right) he'd consider fining people for not wearing masks on federal property if elected president Audience members are photographed watching Joe Biden from outside their cars, as CNN set the town hall up to be like a drive-in movie theater Joe Biden (left) talked to a number of people who experienced loss, including Joe Vadala (right) an immunocompromised teacher whose wife lost her mother to COVID-19  A look at the drive-in movie theater set-up CNN constructed for Joe Biden's Scranton-area town hall event  'First of all, I feel so badly for you,' he told the woman. 'You know, we talk about ... almost 200,000 deaths and it's almost like background noise,'  'But it means a lot of empty chairs. It means a lot of children without their mothers or fathers. It means a lot of people not able to see their parents, so much, so my heart goes out to you,' Biden said.  Biden however made a questionable claim dispute by scientists that Trump was responsible for all U.S. deaths.  'If the president had done his job, had done his job from the beginning, all the people would still be alive,' he said. 'All the people. I’m not making this up. Just look at the data. Look at the data.' The claim was highlighted in the Washington Post as 'made up' by factchecker Glen Kessler.   And while the virus was top of mind, Biden was asked about the summer of racial unrest as well.  Biden explained why he stuck up for peaceful protesters but criticized Trump for restarting his rallies.  The ex-veep said COVID-19 safety was important on both scenarios.  'There is a big difference between people walking, moving along, and people sitting down, cheek to jaw, shoulder to shoulder, a thousand of them, breathing on one another, indoors and out, that causes real serious problems,' he said.  At one point, Cooper asked Biden if he believed he benefited from white privilege.  In one of the taperecorded interviews between Trump and journalist Bob Woodward, Trump scoffed at the idea.  'Sure, I've benefited just because I don't have to go through what my Black brothers and sisters have had to go through,' Biden answered.  Biden then made the point that growing up in Scranton, 'we're used to guys who look down their nose at us.'  'Well I'll tell you what bothered me, to tell you the truth, maybe it's my Scranton roots, I don't know,' he told Cooper. 'But when you guys started talking on television about Biden if he wins will be the first person without an Ivy League degree to be elected president.'  'Who the hell makes you think I have to have an Ivy League degree to be president?' Biden said, garnering applause from the audience.  Biden would be the first president since President Ronald Reagan to not hold an Ivy League degree.    'We are as good as anybody else,' Biden said. 'And guys like Trump who inherited everything and squandered what they inherited are the people I've always had a problem with. Not the people busting their neck.' Throughout the town hall, Biden continued to talk about the election was between Scranton and Park Avenue.  'All that Trump can see from Park Avenue is Wall Street. All he thinks about is the stock market,' Biden said at one point.  He also said that Trump downplayed the coronavirus crisis because his eyes were on Wall Street then as well.  Biden repeatedly spoke of his background in Scranton, his connections to the wider area - including telling a questioner from Philadelphia 'I married a Philly girl' - and referred to his personal experience of grief and loss, with a series of questions at the start coming from people who had suffered bereavement, including a police officer's widow as well as those whose families were hit by coronavirus. The display of empathy played to Biden's strengths as a campaigner, something which he has been unable to do for the past six months, and also presented a contrast to Trump's town hall earlier in the week. Hillary Clinton lost Scranton in the course of her defeat in Pennsylvania, one of the three 'blue wall' states which were won by Trump. But after the event Biden said he would win Scranton. He had won applause from the audience for praising it and has returned repeatedly to it over the years. Biden, 77, also stood throughout the town hall, despite chairs being on stage for him and Cooper, a contrast to Trump, 73, sitting throughout his ABC News town hall in Philadelphia on Tuesday.   Trump had assailed Biden as 'shot' and physically and mentally incapable of becoming president, which Biden's supporters say has simply lowered the bar on how he has to perform at the debates.  His performance will be studied closely by Trump's aides - and by Trump - ahead of the first presidential debate on September 29, a week on Tuesday. Cooper asked Biden if he was practicing and if someone was playing Trump and Biden said 'not so far,' saying he was practicing being 'concise.' Unlike the town hall, the debate comes with time limits and moderator Chris Wallace proved a fierce enforcer of them in 2016. Two people are asking him questions, he said. On Air Force One as the town hall began, Trump's chief of staff Mark Meadows warned that Biden should not be underestimated as an opponent - even though Trump has been reported to have privately scorned practicing and said he would force Biden to stutter or make a gaffe. 'To suggest that you shouldn't take him seriously would be misguided,' Meadows said, noting Biden's almost five decades in electoral politics.  Trump has also suggested that Biden was 'on drugs or something' when he performed well in the later Democratic primary debates, and suggested taking a drug test. In Wisconsin Thursday he addressed a rally as Biden's town hall concluded, and railed at Biden, claiming the Democrat used a teleprompter, while reading from two teleprompters himself. His campaign accused Cooper of 'giving Biden a total pass on his lies and misrepresentations' and the questions being 'an invitation for him to attack President Trump.' Trump campaign adviser Jason Miller tweeted: 'This town hall is an in-kind contribution to the Biden campaign.' President Trump knew how deadly COVID-19 was and did nothing. It’s close to criminal. #BidenTownHall pic.twitter.com/OL3uIA1QSZ Drive-in with Biden: Obama's vice-president's town hall was in the format of a drive-in theater Joe Biden's town hall comes two days after President Donald Trump participated in a Philadelphia town hall, filmed indoors at the National Constitution Center, with only people posing questions as audience members. They wore masks and sat six feet apart  CNN created a drive-in movie theater set-up inside a ball park for the event.  'Who knew drive-ins were coming back?' Cooper remarked as the event opened.  Biden's audience consisted 250 people gathered, the campaign confirmed, keeping in line with Pennsylvania's coronavirus regulations.  The ball park is where the Scranton/Wilkes-Barre RailRiders play.  The old school drive-in has become a stand-in on the Democratic side for campaign rallies, as Biden and his running mate Kamala Harris have preached caution about supporters attending gatherings due to the coronavirus pandemic.  The Democratic Party set up a drive-in in a parking lot outside the Chase Center in Wilmington, Delaware on the final night of the Democratic National Convention so there would be an audience to cheer Biden and Harris as they emerged together as the official presidential ticket to watch fireworks. Supporters watched the virtual convention on large screens and then cheered and honked their horns when Biden and Harris briefly appeared.   Additionally, in cities around the country, watch parties were set up drive-in style so Democratic supporters could watch Biden's nominating speech together.   The town hall brings Biden - who was born in Scranton before moving to Wilmington - to the key swing state two days after President Donald Trump made the trek to Philadelphia for his own town hall with Pennsylvania voters.  Trump's town hall was produced by ABC News and was filmed indoors at the National Constitution Center, where the only audience was the likely voters questioning the president.  They all sat six feet apart and wore masks, until they posed their questions to Trump.  The president has been more cavalier about his campaigning amid a continued spread of the coronavirus.  Last weekend he held his first indoor rally since June in the state of Nevada.  He's packed thousands into airport hangars as well.  The campaign has encouraged mask-wearing of attendees, but droves have rebelled.  At a recent rally in New Hampshire, Trump supporters booed when a voice over the loudspeaker encouraged them to wear masks.  The president told the Las Vegas Review-Journal that he wasn't personally worried about contracting the coronavirus at these events.   'I'm on a stage and it's very far away,' he told the paper. 'And so I'm not at all concerned.'    Former Vice President Joe Biden skewered President Donald Trump for refusing to say outright he would accept the results of the election, then provided his own answer to the question.  'Sure, the full results. Count every vote,' Biden responded, asked by CNN host Anderson Cooper about the freighted topic during a live, outdoor town hall-style meeting.  'Look, i mean, can anybody – any of you are history majors out there think of any president early on who said I'm not sure I'm going to accept the results of the election? It depends?' Biden said, raising his voice for emphasis. 'What's happened to us? This is not who we are. This is not what America is. No president's ever said anything like that.' Former Vice President Joe Biden blasted President Donald Trump for refusing to say he will accept the election results. 'Sure, the full results. Count every vote,' Biden responded when asked if he would do so Responding to a question about mail-in voting – the subject of repeated escalating attacks by President Trump – Biden responded: 'Look, if the president had even remote confidence that he was likely to win the election, he wouldn't be doing this.' He told Cooper: 'Remember, I wasn't on your show, but I said some months ago, I predict the president is going to try to move the Election Day. Everybody said oh he'd never do that.  Guess what? He suggested maybe we should move the election date, postpone the election,' Biden said. Powerful Senate Republicans immediately shot down the idea after Trump floated it.   President Donald Trump has refused to say he will accept the election results. He said in July: 'Trump said in July: 'I have to see. No, I'm not going to just say yes. I'm not going to say no, and I didn't last time either' In this file photo, absentee voting manager Matt Kelly holds the ballot envelopes that will be used to mail ballots at the Franklin County Board of Elections office in Columbus on Wednesday, July 29 Trump loyalist Attorney General Bill Barr has also blasted mail-in voting 'He's done every single thing, including having a postmaster general who still doesn't know who dismantled those machines – who ordered picking up those places to mail your ballots,' Biden said. 'I mean, it just is all about trying to delegitimize the effort.' Trump told Fox News Sunday's Chris Wallace in July when pressed on whether he would accept the results: 'I have to see. No, I'm not going to just say yes. I'm not going to say no, and I didn't last time either.' Trump took a similar posture in 2016, when he said: 'I will tell you at the time. I will keep you in suspense.'  Cooper asked him point blank: 'Would you commit tonight to accepting the results of the election?' Biden's call to 'count every vote' only hints at the political and legal battle that lies ahead. He is assembling a team of top litigators, including former solicitors general, to fight to allow ballots and anticipating challenges. Trump continues to rail against mail-in voting, as he did at the White House yesterday.   Trump tweeted Thursday morning: 'Because of the new and unprecedented massive amount of unsolicited ballots which will be sent to 'voters', or wherever, this year, the Nov 3rd Election result may NEVER BE ACCURATELY DETERMINED, which is what some want. Another election disaster yesterday. Stop Ballot Madness!,'    Asked by a Philadelphia voter what he would do to secure mail-in voting if elected, Biden said: 'I would not try to throw into question the legitimacy of the election like this president and the people around him have done.'     He spoke about an election two years ahead, when COVID-19 will hopefully be on the wane. 'Look it's all about people showing up and voting.  And i'm confident notwithstanding all the efforts the president's made, I think you're going to see a massive turnout,' he said. 
Covid-19 was the 24th most common cause of death in England last month Coronavirus was only the 24th most common cause of death in England in August, official figures revealed today. Data from the Office for National Statistics (ONS) shows Covid-19 accounted for a mere 1.4 per cent of all deaths last month - just 482 out of 34,000.  Alzheimer's was the leading cause of death, followed by heart disease and lung cancer. Flu and pneumonia was 8th.  Covid-19 was to blame for a third of all deaths in April. It was still the third most common way to die in June and remained in the top 10 in July. But it has dropped massively down the table over the summer, despite Britain still living under restrictions designed to curb the spread of the virus. Figures showed Covid-19 was the 19th most common cause of death in August in Wales, and accounted for 2.2 per cent of all deaths. ONS data also shows fewer people died of any cause in August since 2000, when records began. A total of 746 deaths were registered for every 100,000 people last month, more than half of the 1,859 in April – the highest on record. Experts say that because the coronavirus is the most severe in vulnerable people, deaths were 'front loaded' to the start of 2020 when the elderly and people with underlying conditions caught it.  Covid-19 was not in the top ten most common causes of death in August in England (pictured) Covid-19 was also missing from the top ten most common causes of death in August in Wales (pictured) The rate of death per 100,000 this August (746) is the lowest on record The data published today shows of the 34,750 deaths registered in August 2020 in England, 482 deaths involved the coronavirus, either suspected or confirmed. In Wales, 52 of the 2,379 deaths registered in August involved Covid-19. The coronavirus did not even feature in the top ten leading causes of death in August in either country. But ONS do not publish a full table ranking the causes of deaths because it says the data is only preliminary and subject to change as more deaths are registered.  The leading cause of death was dementia and Alzheimer's disease in England, accounting for 10.9 per cent of all deaths (3,777), and ischaemic heart disease in Wales, 11 per cent of all deaths (261). Alzheimer's led to the deaths of around 80.6 people in England per 100,000 in August, compared with 7.2 for Covid-19. And flu deaths were 2.7 times higher than Covid-19 at around 19.6 deaths per 100,000.   In Wales the difference is even more stark, with flu killing 35.3 people per 100,000 - three times higher than the 11 per 100,000 from Covid-19. However, deaths from the most common causes have also decreased below what would be expected when compared to a five year average, and are lower than levels seen in March.  Data shows in April there were 623 Covid-19 deaths per 100,000 in England, now at 7.2. And in Wales, this figure has shot down from 495.1 to 11 There have been more deaths this year than what would have been expected. This is because of the pandemic Six in ten of Covid-19 victims had a disability, figures from the Office for National Statistics revealed today. Disabled people made up 59 per cent of all deaths involving Covid-19 from March 2 to July 14 (27,534 of 46,314 deaths). But only 16 per cent of the general population are disabled, according to the 2011 Census, meaning they were significantly impacted by the coronavirus than anyone else. A disability was defined as a health problem which limits a person's daily activities lasting or expected to last at least 12 months. People answered the survey question with the answers of: Yes, limited a lot; Yes, limited a little; and No. There were no disabilities described in the ONS report, therefore could range from a chronic pain condition, to arthritis in old age, to a physical handicap from birth. According to the Government, the most commonly-reported impairments in Britain are those that affect mobility, lifting or carrying. Covid-19 mortality rates between those with a disability compared to those without was 2.4 times higher for women and twice as high for men after adjusting for a range of factors – where people live, how densely population that area is and socio-demographics. Of the total 46,314 deaths studied, 54.6 per cent were in males. And 90.5 per cent were in those over the age of 65 years. Amongst the 19,405 deaths of women aged 65 years and over, 67.2 per cent (13,048) had a disability. This was not as significant in men. Some 55.9 per cent of deaths in men over the age of 65 had a disability (12,612 of 22,525). However, men looking at age-standardised mortality rates - used to allow comparisons between populations that may contain different proportions of people of different ages – men fared worse. Men who were over 65 and severely limited by their disability had a mortality rate of 860.8 per 100,000 people compared to men in the same category without a disability at 351.87. For women over 65 with a severe disability, the mortality rate was 589.63 compared with 187.95 in women without a disability. The mortality rate for Alzheimer's in August was 80.6, compared to the five-year average of 96.6. Deaths per 100,000 for and ischaemic heart disease in Wales were at 95.1 in August this year, compared to the five-year average of 102.7. It could be speculated that because a large proportion of people who have been recorded as a Covid-19 death have had dementia and Alzheimer's disease, those people's deaths were brought forward due to the pandemic.  Essentially, they sadly died earlier than expected due to catching the coronavirus but still may have died this year.  Of the deaths that have involved the coronavirus during the pandemic, nine in ten victims had at least one pre-existing condition. The most common are dementia and Alzheimer's disease (a quarter), and heart disease (nine per cent). The ONS said: 'The coronavirus pandemic resulted in deaths registered in April and May 2020 rising well above what would be expected (based on the five-year average). 'Covid-19 has had a larger impact on the most vulnerable people (such as those who already suffer from a medical condition), and those at older ages. 'Some of these deaths would have likely occurred over the duration of the year but have occurred earlier because of Covid-19. These deaths happening earlier than expected could contribute to a period of deaths below the five-year average, as seen in August 2020.' Overall there were 1,521 fewer deaths this August compared to last August, and 2,060 fewer than the five-year average. But the month of August tends to have lower deaths than the rest of the year anyway, the data shows. The rate of death per 100,000 this August (746) is the lowest on record but is followed by August 2019 (788). August 2015, August 2014, August 2013 and August 2009 are all in the top 10 least deadly months. Mortality rates in Wales show a similar pattern. There were 835.8 deaths per 100,000 population in August 2020. Generally, since 2001, the age-standardised mortality rates for people aged 0 to 74 years have been decreasing, the ONS points out. The number of people dying of all causes has now been below average for several weeks in England and Wales, reaching a low in August.  There were 739 deaths on August 31 this year compared to 1,189 in a typical year. But the former figure is subject to change as more death registrations come through.   Covid-19 deaths have drastically declined in numbers since the peak of the pandemic, with the worst day on April 8 (1,220 deaths in England and 70 in Wales). This has slowly fallen as the spread of the coronavirus has been curbed. There were five deaths due to Covid-19 occurring on 31 August in England and zero in Wales. This may go up slightly as more deaths are registered. Data shows in April there were 623 Covid-19 deaths per 100,000 in England, now at 7.2. And in Wales, this figure has shot down from 495.1 to 11. Covid-19 has been has been listed on death certificates as the underlying cause of death in 12.5 per cent of all deaths that occurred in England, and 9.8 per cent of all deaths in Wales since January. Because of the pandemic, more people have died this year than would be expected. Almost 365,890 people have died in England this year, 33,000 more than the five-year average, and 23,400 in Wales, 1,060 more than the five-year average. Matt Hancock reveals Covid hospital admissions are doubling every EIGHT days as top expert warns thousands of infected patients a day could need NHS care in October  ByStephen Matthews Health Editorand Joe Middleton For Mailonline  Matt Hancock today warned the number of coronavirus patients being admitted to hospital is doubling every eight days as he revealed ministers need to 'take action' because the outbreak is accelerating. The Health Secretary pleaded with the public to 'come together to tackle this virus' and admitted that a new national crackdown could be on the cards because it 'isn't just cases' that are increasing.  Government statistics show 194 newly-infected Covid-19 patients were admitted to hospitals in England on Tuesday, compared to just 84 eight days ago and just 38 on August 30. It means 154 patients are needing NHS care each day, on average — triple the figure of 52 on September 1. More than 3,000 people each day were being admitted to NHS hospitals during the peak of the first wave in April. Analysis suggests, at the current trend, it would take little more than three weeks for daily admissions to top 2,000. And a top infectious disease expert today warned that it is 'plausible' the doubling rate of every eight days could continue. Professor Paul Hunter, of University of East Anglia, told MailOnline the number of admissions could surpass the daily rate seen in March and April in just a month's time.  Cases have spiked over the same time frame, with another 3,395 infections recorded yesterday — a 33 per cent rise in a week. Deaths are also starting to creep up, with the average number of patients dying each day now standing at 14 — up from seven a fortnight ago.  More aggressive measures, including a national 'circuit breaker', are on the cards to stop the growth of the outbreak. The move could come as soon as next week, with pubs, restaurants and hotels facing being shut to prevent 'significant' casualties. It comes as hospitals have been warned they must clear beds and brace themselves for a rise in coronavirus patients in the next few weeks.   MPs in London have been informed of plans to increase 'step down' beds in the capital, it was reported today. The beds will be made available to coronavirus patients who no longer need any hospital treatment, but can recover from the disease while isolating.     Hospitals cancelled thousands of surgeries like hip operations and cancer treatment  to free up space for infected patients at the peak of the crisis, causing the NHS to have a record-high waiting list for routine treatment. The drive to free up beds in the first wave also saw coronavirus-infected patients discharged into care homes, where the virus was allowed to spread.    Analysis suggests, at the current trend, it would take little more than three weeks for daily admissions to top 2,000 The Health Secretary pleaded with the public to 'come together to tackle this virus' and admitted that a new national crackdown could be on the cards because it 'isn't just cases' that are increasing Matt Hancock today admitted that a new national crackdown is on the cards as he warned infections are 'accelerating across the country' and more people will die. The Health Secretary pleaded with the public to 'come together to tackle this virus' as ministers consider imposing draconian restrictions for a fortnight in a 'circuit break' to stop the spread. The move could come as soon as next week, with pubs, restaurants and hotels facing being shut to prevent 'significant' casualties. In a round of interviews this morning, Mr Hancock said a national lockdown was the 'last line of defence'. But he warned that it was a 'big moment for the country' and the situation was 'deadly serious', with cases now doubling every eight days. Unless the 'Rule of Six' restrictions worked more would have to be done, he warned. 'The virus is clearly accelerating across the country,' Mr Hancock told Sky News. 'We have got to take the necessary action to keep people safe. We will do what it takes to keep people safe.' It comes as 10million people are told to follow new lockdown rules as Lancashire is placed under curfew alongside the North East. The Government's chief science and medical officers have warned that another serious outbreak of coronavirus could lead to a significant number of deaths by the end of next month. In an interview with BBC Breakfast this morning, Mr Hancock warned that it was 'absolutely critical' that people continued to follow the basic rules with regard to coronavirus. He said: 'We have seen an acceleration in the number of cases over the last couple of weeks and we’ve also sadly seen that the number of people hospitalised with coronavirus is doubling about every eight days, so we do need to take action.' The government's most-up-to-date data shows 194 Covid-19 patients in England were admitted to hospital on September 15 — at an average of 154 a day over the past week. For comparison, the rolling seven-day average had dipped to as low as 45 on August 22, when just 25 hospital admissions were recorded across the country. At the height of the pandemic at the start of April, the average number of daily admissions was 2,700. Britain's lockdown and tough social distancing measures allowed the rate to plummet to below 1,000 by the start of May. Department of Health chiefs say data is not updated every day by all four nations and the figures are not comparable. For instance, Wales include suspected Covid-19 patients while all the other nations include only confirmed cases. Professor Hunter told MailOnline that the spike in admissions is 'predictable' and 'expected', given the spike in cases over the past few weeks. He added: 'It's worrying that it's going up but the big concern is how many hospital admissions we will end up seeing.  'I suspect it will carry on... but I suspect we won't see it doubling quite as rapidly because, often, these things start off quite fast and then they tail off after a little while. 'It doesn't always tail off, but ultimately it does because if it carries on doubling [at that speed], then soon every single person on the planet will be on hospital. So it has to tail off eventually.  'The issue is when does it start tailing off? I have no way of knowing.' Professor Hunter added that it was 'plausible' England's hospital admissions could get up the levels seen in April but admitted he think it's probably won't happen. He said: 'The evidence is older people are still, sort of, social distancing themselves more than other groups, and they're the group most likely to get hospitalised. There's also a smaller pool to get infected and be hospitalised than we saw back in March and April. 'But it may well continue, and it's plausible that England could well in a month's time be surpassing that figure. But I hope not.'  It comes as hospitals have been warned they must clear beds and brace themselves for a rise in coronavirus patients in the next few weeks. One MP who has seen the plans told the Telegraph: 'I was told hospitals have reserved beds for people coming out of hospital who need somewhere to re-cover. 'At the start of lockdown they were having to send people back to care homes or back to other facilities, with dire consequences, so they've booked places in respite care or empty care homes, so people will go out of hospital, but won't return to their normal place of living.'  Another source said that councils have also been asked to find extra beds   It comes amid more testing chaos yesterday as Baroness Dido Harding, head of NHS Test and Trace, revealed that demand for coronavirus tests is currently up to four times greater than the system's capacity.     By Lizzie Deane for the Daily Mail THE UK'S test and trace system could be outsourced to a delivery giant such as Amazon, it was reported last night. Ministers are said to be planning to hand over the running of the testing service to a logistics firm as the system struggles to cope with increased demand for tests. A invitation to bid for a contract covering the management of the entire 'end-to-end' supply chain will be issued next month, The Daily Telegraph reported. A Government source said 'experts in delivery services' were needed. 'At the moment, the management of NHS Test and Trace has been in-house but, as we go into winter, we need experts in this area to take it forward,' they said. Amazon, DHL and other major logistics firms are all reportedly likely to be competing for the huge contract which will be the linchpin of the Health Secretary's promise to deliver 500,000 tests a day by the end of next month. An information notice issued by the Department of Health calls for potential bidders to register their interest in the contract to co-ordinate the testing service's supply change. It says: 'In order to significantly scale up the number of daily tests as well as making the operations more efficient, we are looking for an end-to-end management of all associated supply chain and logistics processes along the chain.' The government's testing tzar also blamed the Government's Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (SAGE) for seemingly getting its predictions wrong as she said testing capacity had been built based on the panel's recommendations.  Last night it emerged the country's faltering testing system could be outsourced to Amazon, as reported by The Telegraph. A source said: 'At the moment the management of NHS Test and Trace has been in-house but as we go into winter we need experts in this area to take it forward.'     The government is also expected to announce tighter restrictions on care home visits in areas with high numbers of coronavirus cases are expected to be announced by the Government in its winter action plan. Care homes in areas subject to local lockdowns may be advised to temporarily restrict visits in all but end-of-life situations, it is understood. For parts of the country where there is no local lockdown, but where community transmission is a cause for concern, an option officials are considering is advising that visits are restricted to one designated visitor per resident. The Government will set out further details on Friday in its social care action plan to help fight the spread of coronavirus over winter. As part of the plan, care homes will receive free protective equipment and providers must stop 'all but essential' movement of staff between homes, the Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC) said. This will be supported by an additional £546 million announced on Thursday as part of the extended infection control fund. A new dashboard will monitor care home infections and help local government and providers respond quickly. And a chief nurse for adult social care will be appointed to represent social care nurses and provide 'clinical leadership'. Local authorities and the Care Quality Commission will be asked to take 'strong action' in instances where providers are not restricting staff movement adequately. The DHSC said this could include restricting a service's operation and issuing warning notices. Health and Social Care Secretary Matt Hancock said: 'We are entering a critical phase in our fight against coronavirus with winter on the horizon. 'Our priority over the next six months is to make sure we protect those most vulnerable receiving care and our incredibly hard-working workforce by limiting the spread of the virus and preventing a second spike. Boris Johnson on dealing with the 'inevitable' second wave Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg has died at age 87 People party in street in Nottingham despite second wave imminent Couple built natural swimming pool in back garden in two years Birmingham freshers enjoy night out in Birmingham city centre Daredevil climber spotted on Paris skyscraper bare hands Lord McColl says don't blame COVID rates on Government Horrifying moment toddlers are crushed by falling cabinet drawers Drinkers in Newcastle partake in messy night out prior to lockdown Paraglider pulls off perfect ground spiral manoeuvre Listen at an alligator inhaling helium in the name of science Joan Collins claims late sister sent her sign as house had power cut Boris Johnson on dealing with the 'inevitable' second wave Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg has died at age 87 People party in street in Nottingham despite second wave imminent Couple built natural swimming pool in back garden in two years Birmingham freshers enjoy night out in Birmingham city centre Daredevil climber spotted on Paris skyscraper bare hands Lord McColl says don't blame COVID rates on Government Horrifying moment toddlers are crushed by falling cabinet drawers Drinkers in Newcastle partake in messy night out prior to lockdown Paraglider pulls off perfect ground spiral manoeuvre Listen at an alligator inhaling helium in the name of science Joan Collins claims late sister sent her sign as house had power cut 'This winter plan gives providers the certainty they need when it comes to PPE and provides additional support to help care homes to limit the movement of staff, stop the spread of coronavirus and save lives. 'We will be monitoring the implementation of this carefully and will be swift in our actions to protect residents and colleagues across the country.' It comes as Age UK said some older people are 'dying of sadness' because they have been cut off from loved ones over a long period of time. Charity director Caroline Abrahams said it is important the plan achieves an 'appropriate balance' between ensuring infection control and allowing residents to keep in contact with loved ones. She said: 'All in all what we have seen so far is promising, but we will await with interest to read what the plan says about visiting in care homes. 'With Covid-19 cases on the rise and winter on the way it's right that every activity that could potentially place residents at risk is considered very carefully, including visiting, but any sense of a 'blanket ban' would be highly inappropriate, however anxious we may all feel. 'Risks, capabilities and opportunities of all kinds differ hugely across care homes and for the sake of older people this enormous variation must be taken fully into account.' Liz Kendall, Labour's shadow social care minister, welcomed the appointment of a chief nurse and increased funding. She continued: 'But the real test of this plan is whether the Government delivers on weekly testing of all care staff - first promised in July but still not delivered, with serious concerns about delays in getting results back. 'Ensuring families can visit their loved ones is also critical, as without this care home residents can end up fading fast.' 
Buatsi praying comeback fight won't be dashed by second Covid-19 wave The frustrations for a boxer who would be on the brink of a world title challenge now but for coronavirus prolonging his absence from the ring beyond a year are plaguing Joshua Buatsi. Yet even though the threatened second national lockdown would pile on those agonies for Britain’s fast-rising light-heavyweight championship contender he will not be taking enforcement of the latest Covid restrictions into his own fists. Buatsi is due to box again behind closed doors on Sunday October 4 on Sky Sorts and is praying his comeback against undefeated Croatian Marco Calic is not called off. Rising star Joshua Buatsi is itching to get back in the ring against Marco Calic on October 4 That risk would grow if too many members of the public flout the latest government rules but he says: ‘I do what we’re all being told. I wear my mask and all that. I hope everyone in London will do the same. But even if I see people disobeying I won’t be using my boxing skills to force them to behave. ‘I just have to hope that nothing goes badly wrong in London in the next couple of weeks. And that we can then get back to having crowds at boxing from early next year.’ The return of the fans will be crucial to the progress of both Buatsi, with his all-win record of ten KO’s in 12 fights and his local rival Anthony Yarde, who was first to get a world title fight and came close to defeating the ferocious Sergey Kovalev in Russia last summer. The light-heavyweight world title contender is praying a second wave won't cancel his fight Even though they fight under rival promotional banners – Buatsi for Eddie Hearn and Yarde for Frank Warren – it seems inevitable they will collide in the ring at some point. There is a clamour for that to happen sooner rather than later and Buatsi says: ‘I’m ready for whenever an agreement can be reached for us to fight each other.’ But he also views an even more thrilling prospect of them both winning versions of the world title next year and then disputing a unified championship in a huge domestic battle in a London football stadium by the end of 2021. Buatsi admitted he is keen to fight Anthony Yarde (R) in a blockbuster showdown next year ‘That would be really exciting,’ says Buatsi. ‘It would make up for all the disappointments of the 13 months since I fought last. I’ve kept training and stayed optimistic even though I feel that if I’d had three more fights in that time I would already be set up for a world title bid next year. ‘This has been a difficult time for boxers everywhere but I’m itching go now. Calic is a decent opponent and I need to make a big impact by beating him impressively.’ Buatsi v Calic will be televised live on Sky Sports Arena on Sunday October 4. 
Matt Hancock denies government didn't plan for spike in testing demand Matt Hancock has denied the Government failed to plan for a surge in demand for coronavirus tests, and claimed the spike of up to four times greater than Britain's capacity was 'very, very hard to predict'. Batting off criticism, the Health Secretary blamed the public for applying for tests when they didn't have symptoms and accused Britons in self-isolation of trying to get tests so that they could get out of quarantine and back to reality. Defending his handling of the testing fiasco, he claimed: 'Of course we knew that demand was going to go up, the challenge has been that it has gone up incredibly high including among the people who do not have symptoms, who are not eligible for tests. 'We model the amount of demand among people who are eligible. The fact that there's been such a spike from those for whom a test won't help... that is very, very hard to predict that there'd be this behavioural change.' Testing tsar Baroness Harding faced a grilling from MPs yesterday as she argued that 'no one saw' the surge in demand, despite repeated warnings that Britons returning to schools and offices would heap huge pressure on the system.  It comes as test and trace was today branded 'barely functional', with staff taking as long as 14 days to contact the friends, relatives and colleagues of those who test positive for coronavirus.  And concerns were today also raised about the Government's seven 'Lighthouse Labs' and their ability to process results, due to shortages of staff and equipment.  Genomics scientist and inventor Phil Robinson told The Times that the Lighthouse Labs were poorly managed, running out of staff and failed to set up automatic processes before a second wave of infections.  Matt Hancock has admitted he did plan for a spike in demand, but claimed the enormous surge they have  seen was 'very, very hard to predict' Testing tsar Baroness Harding faced a grilling from MPs yesterday as the wheels began to come off the UK's 'world-leading' testing system  Who should get tested for coronavirus? The NHS says that anyone who develops symptoms of coronavirus should get a test. These are: They add that a select group of other people will also be able to access testing. These are people who:  Who should not get a coronavirus test? Matt Hancock has claimed up to one-in-four tests are being given out to people who are not eligible for them. He said he has heard stories of whole schools applying for them after one case of coronavirus was recorded there, and of people getting them because they are going on holiday. This is not what the testing system has been designed for, he said. and it means that people who need a test cannot get one.  Source: NHS   Seeking to blame the public for the testing crisis, Mr Hancock told BBC Radio 4's Today programme that demand for tests has 'gone through the roof'. 'The reason I defend so fiercely the people who are building our testing capability is that they have been, they were given, a trajectory to hit that was based on the science and they are on track to deliver that growth. 'Now of course I want it to go as fast as possible and we have put huge resources into this and there's new technologies some of which are in the news today coming onboard. 'But, you know, driving that as fast as possible has been the goal and then we've had this massive increase in demand from people who aren't eligible. 'Over summer we built the capacity, we automated parts of the process, putting in place new machines, opening new labs, we've been building this capacity over the summer and working incredibly hard all the way through.' He added: 'At the start of last week we saw demand was shooting up. We could have reduced the over 100,000 tests a day that are sent to social care - and that would have taken a load of noise out of the system. 'But I refused to do that and the Prime Minister actively backed this decision because that's where tests are needed more than anywhere because of the frailty and vulnerability of people in care homes.' On Thursday the Government announced it was launching two new 'Lighthouse' laboratories alongside the seven it already operates to manage overwhelming demand. The two will be built in Newcastle and Bracknell, and come 'on-line' alongside Newport and Charnwood by the end of October, to increase capacity to deliver 500,000 tests per day. Government capacity stands at around 236,000 tests a day. Yesterday it was revealed that nine of the ten coronavirus hotspots in England recorded no new cases for the last two days as labs struggled to catch up with capacity.      What is a Lighthouse Lab? The laboratories are set up to process the swab tests that are used to diagnose people with coronavirus. They contain machines capable of a process called polymerase chain reaction (PCR), which magnifies DNA samples from people's saliva and mucous to look for signs of the virus. Samples taken at swab testing centres are delivered to the labs where technicians analyse the samples and file the result into a database, which then sends the result back to the person who took the test and logs it in the Government's data. Where are the Lighthouse Labs? Who runs the Lighthouse Labs?  Ultimately controlled by the Department of Health, the labs are run with the help of pharmaceutical companies AstraZeneca and GlaxoSmithKline, as well as the universities of Cambridge, Glasgow and Dundee, and the scientific organisations UK Biocentre, Medicines Discovery Catapult and US-based PerkinElmer.  Those companies and institutes are understood to be the ones who supply technicians to staff the labs, while testing centres use outsourced staff supplied by contractors including Serco and Sodexo. Director of the Lighthouse Labs network is Professor Chris Molloy, the CEO of a Government-funded not-for-profit medical institute based in Cheshire. As well as the Lighthouse Labs, the Government also relies on laboratories run by the NHS, Public Health England and other universities and scientific institutions to help process tests.  The system is organised by the UK Lighthouse Labs Network on instruction from the Department of Health. Director of the UKLLN is Professor Chris Molloy, the CEO of Medicines Discovery Catapult, a Government-funded non-profit medical institute based in Cheshire.    But a leading scientist has warned the Covid testing system is 'dying on its a**e' and accused labs of being poorly run with staff and equipment problems. Genomics scientist and inventor Phil Robinson told The Times that the lighthouse labs were poorly managed, running out of staff and failed to set up automatic processes before a second wave of infections. He told the paper: 'Every part of the process was poor. The other ludicrous issue they have is they have 20 different types of tube coming into the lab. When you are running a high throughput lab it's only sensible to have one. Why they haven't standardised that I have no idea.' As the wheels come off the testing system it has also been revealed that test and trace is taking up to two weeks to contact friends, relatives and colleagues of people who test positive for Covid-19. Documents seen by The Guardian revealed the delays, and showed contact tracers at one firm hired by the Government to ensure close contacts of confirmed cases were tracked down and told to self-isolate have called contacts only to discover they were first identified as being at risk up to 14 days earlier. One contact tracer said: 'Some people are being told by test and trace that they need to self-isolate when their isolation period has been and gone.  'I rang someone a few days ago to tell them that they were a contact of a confirmed case and therefore needed to self-isolate. But halfway through the call I realised that her self-isolation period began on 31 August.' NHS Providers, which represents NHS trust leaders, argued that the country was 'a long way off where we need to be with testing'.  Plans have also been revealed for a Lighthouse laboratory dealing with testing and a Covid-19 research hub, which could create 1,100 jobs in the North East of England. The new facility would serve the region, as well as northern Cumbria and Yorkshire, and would be the latest expansion of the Government's national Test and Trace programme. The Lighthouse lab will be based in Gateshead with a specialist innovation lab at the Helix site in Newcastle, focused on developing new approaches to coronavirus science. The project will be a partnership between Newcastle City Council and the Newcastle upon Tyne Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, as well as public health teams, local universities and industry. Deputy chief executive Saffron Cordery said trust leaders were 'increasingly concerned' that testing shortages could put pressure on NHS services and winter preparations due to growing staff absences. 'Trust leaders are concerned that they do not have the detail on why there are shortages, how widespread they are or how long they will last,' she added. Yesterday the UK recorded 3,395 new Covid-19 cases, bringing the seven-day rolling average of infections to up 33 per cent in a week. Britain also recorded 21 more deaths from coronavirus, with 18 in England, three in Wales, and none in Scotland and Northern Ireland.  Members of the public are pictured queuing outside a coronavirus testing centre in Edmonton, North London, as people across the country say they are struggling to get hold of tests Coronavirus testing centres have been pictured empty today despite hundreds of people saying they cannot book an appointment online. Meanwhile the company that runs them, Sodexo, is recruiting more staff and officials will say only that they are diverting capacity to badly-hit areas (Pictured: A test site in Leeds) 
Hospitals are warned to clear beds and brace for a rise in patients Hospitals have been warned they must clear beds and brace themselves for a rise in coronavirus patients in the next few weeks.  Covid-19 cases, hospital admissions and deaths are all on the rise, government figures revealed yesterday as more than 10 million people will soon be living under local lockdowns as the North East became the latest to impose restrictions.  Yesterday another 3,395 Covid-19 infections were recorded, meaning the rolling seven-day average number of cases has risen 2 per cent in a day and 33 per cent in a week to 3,354.   The uptick is prompting concerns the country is moving towards a second peak of the virus.  MPs in London have been informed of plans to increase 'step down' beds in the capital, as reported by The Telegraph.  The beds will be made available to coronavirus patients who no longer need any hospital treatment, but can recover from the disease while isolating. The data comes as Health Secretary Matt Hancock has warned hospitalisations are doubling every eight days and that the outbreak is accelerating, meaning it is 'critical' that people follow social distancing and lockdown rules.  Covid-19 cases, hospital admissions and deaths are all on the rise, government figures revealed yesterday. Pictured: A volunteer patient demonstrating a continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) breathing aid that can help keep Covid-19 patients out of intensive care One MP who has seen the plans told the newspaper: 'I was told hospitals have reserved beds for people coming out of hospital who need somewhere to re-cover. 'At the start of lockdown they were having to send people back to care homes or back to other facilities, with dire consequences, so they've booked places in respite care or empty care homes, so people will go out of hospital, but won't return to their normal place of living.'  Another source said that councils have also been asked to find extra beds. In an interview with BBC Breakfast this morning, Mr Hancock warned that it was 'absolutely critical' that people continued to follow the basic rules with regard to coronavirus. He said: 'We have seen an acceleration in the number of cases over the last couple of weeks and we’ve also sadly seen that the number of people hospitalised with coronavirus is doubling about every eight days, so we do need to take action.' Government statistics show 194 newly-infected Covid-19 patients were admitted to hospitals in England on Tuesday, compared to just 84 eight days ago and just 38 on August 30. It means 154 patients are needing NHS care each day, on average — triple the figure of 52 on September 1. More than 3,000 people each day were being admitted to NHS hospitals during the peak of the first wave in April. Analysis suggests, at the current trend, it would take little more than three weeks for daily admissions to top 2,000. And a top infectious disease expert today warned that it is 'plausible' the doubling rate of every eight days could continue. Professor Paul Hunter, of University of East Anglia, told MailOnline the number of admissions could surpass the daily rate seen in March and April in just a month's time. It comes amid more testing chaos yesterday as Baroness Dido Harding, head of NHS Test and Trace, revealed that demand for coronavirus tests is currently up to four times greater than the system's capacity.     The government's testing tzar also blamed the Government's Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (SAGE) for seemingly getting its predictions wrong as she said testing capacity had been built based on the panel's recommendations.  By Lizzie Deane for the Daily Mail THE UK'S test and trace system could be outsourced to a delivery giant such as Amazon, it was reported last night. Ministers are said to be planning to hand over the running of the testing service to a logistics firm as the system struggles to cope with increased demand for tests. A invitation to bid for a contract covering the management of the entire 'end-to-end' supply chain will be issued next month, The Daily Telegraph reported. A Government source said 'experts in delivery services' were needed. 'At the moment, the management of NHS Test and Trace has been in-house but, as we go into winter, we need experts in this area to take it forward,' they said. Amazon, DHL and other major logistics firms are all reportedly likely to be competing for the huge contract which will be the linchpin of the Health Secretary's promise to deliver 500,000 tests a day by the end of next month. An information notice issued by the Department of Health calls for potential bidders to register their interest in the contract to co-ordinate the testing service's supply change. It says: 'In order to significantly scale up the number of daily tests as well as making the operations more efficient, we are looking for an end-to-end management of all associated supply chain and logistics processes along the chain.' Last night it emerged the country's faltering testing system could be outsourced to Amazon, as reported by The Telegraph. A source said: 'At the moment the man- agement of NHS Test and Trace has been in-house but as we go into winter we need experts in this area to take it forward.'     The government is also expected to announce tighter restrictions on care home visits in areas with high numbers of coronavirus cases are expected to be announced by the Government in its winter action plan. Care homes in areas subject to local lockdowns may be advised to temporarily restrict visits in all but end-of-life situations, it is understood. For parts of the country where there is no local lockdown, but where community transmission is a cause for concern, an option officials are considering is advising that visits are restricted to one designated visitor per resident. The Government will set out further details on Friday in its social care action plan to help fight the spread of coronavirus over winter. As part of the plan, care homes will receive free protective equipment and providers must stop 'all but essential' movement of staff between homes, the Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC) said. This will be supported by an additional £546 million announced on Thursday as part of the extended infection control fund. A new dashboard will monitor care home infections and help local government and providers respond quickly. And a chief nurse for adult social care will be appointed to represent social care nurses and provide 'clinical leadership'. Local authorities and the Care Quality Commission will be asked to take 'strong action' in instances where providers are not restricting staff movement adequately. The DHSC said this could include restricting a service's operation and issuing warning notices. Health and Social Care Secretary Matt Hancock said: 'We are entering a critical phase in our fight against coronavirus with winter on the horizon. 'Our priority over the next six months is to make sure we protect those most vulnerable receiving care and our incredibly hard-working workforce by limiting the spread of the virus and preventing a second spike. It comes amid more testing chaos yesterday as Baroness Dido Harding, head of NHS Test and Trace, revealed that demand for coronavirus tests is currently up to four times greater than the system's capacity 'This winter plan gives providers the certainty they need when it comes to PPE and provides additional support to help care homes to limit the movement of staff, stop the spread of coronavirus and save lives. 'We will be monitoring the implementation of this carefully and will be swift in our actions to protect residents and colleagues across the country.' It comes as Age UK said some older people are 'dying of sadness' because they have been cut off from loved ones over a long period of time. Charity director Caroline Abrahams said it is important the plan achieves an 'appropriate balance' between ensuring infection control and allowing residents to keep in contact with loved ones. She said: 'All in all what we have seen so far is promising, but we will await with interest to read what the plan says about visiting in care homes. 'With Covid-19 cases on the rise and winter on the way it's right that every activity that could potentially place residents at risk is considered very carefully, including visiting, but any sense of a 'blanket ban' would be highly inappropriate, however anxious we may all feel. 'Risks, capabilities and opportunities of all kinds differ hugely across care homes and for the sake of older people this enormous variation must be taken fully into account.' Liz Kendall, Labour's shadow social care minister, welcomed the appointment of a chief nurse and increased funding. She continued: 'But the real test of this plan is whether the Government delivers on weekly testing of all care staff - first promised in July but still not delivered, with serious concerns about delays in getting results back. 'Ensuring families can visit their loved ones is also critical, as without this care home residents can end up fading fast.'  
Connah's Quay Nomads deny Covid-19 protocol breach Welsh club Connah's Quay Nomads have denied breaching Covid-19 protocol after their manager admitted he 'turned a blind eye' to three players who turned up feeling unwell. Three Connah's Quay players pulled out of their squad for Thursday's UEFA Europa League qualifier against Georgian team Dinamo Tbilisi after testing positive for coronavirus. A fourth player self-isolated after showing Covid symptoms. And manager Andy Morrison revealed after their 1-0 defeat that three more players were told to play despite feeling ill, later claiming on Twitter they were suffering from 'Bombay trots' and 'flatulence trapped wind.'  Connah's Quay Nomads manager Andy Morrison admitted after their Europa League defeat to Dinamo Tbilisi he 'turned a blind eye' to three players who reported feeling 'unwell'  The Welsh Premier League club lost 1-0 to their Georgian opponents at Wrexham's ground His comments led to criticism from the Welsh Conservatives shadow health minister Andrew RT Davies, who was left 'dumbfounded' the match went ahead. Morrison said: 'Three lads have turned up tonight and they're not well. 'And it's like, 'lads, I don't want to hear it. I can't hear it tonight that you're ill… let's just get through it.' 'I've been told that before the game and we've had to turn a blind eye to it and then you would have never noticed that anyone there tonight wasn't feeling great.' When questioned on Twitter later in the evening, Morrison said the three players 'passed all protocol' and were 'just not themselves.' Pushed further, Morrison appeared to suggest two of the players were suffering from stomach problems - described as 'Bombay trots' and 'flatulence trapped wind' - while another had 'toothache'. In another Twitter reply, Morrison said one had a 'headache' and another 'Deli [sic] belly].  Morrison later responded to criticism on Twitter, saying the players in question were suffering from 'Bombay trots', 'flatulence trapped wind' and 'toothache' before the game Morrison denied the players were suffering from Covid-19 after an outbreak in his squad Morrison and the club have insisted all Covid-19 protocols were followed before the match He added: 'As a manager you turn a blind eye on match day - your [sic] not interest there's a game of football to be played.' The Welsh Premier League club, who lost 1-0 thanks to a 97th-minute penalty at Wrexham's Racecourse Ground, insisted they followed all UEFA Covid-19 protocol and that Morrison's comments had been 'misconstrued'. A club statement read: 'We would like to go on record and say that this is categorically untrue and that what the manager was referring to was a number of players who may not have played had we had a fully fit squad. 'Morrison clarified this in a tweet on his own personal Twitter account, indicating that a number of players had suffered from isolated pre-match upset stomach and headaches likely down to nerves due to being thrust into the starting lineup.' However, 'headache' and 'diarrhoea' are both listed by the World Health Organization among 'less common' Covid-19 symptoms.   Nomads player Jamie Insall goes off injured during Thursday night's Europa League qualifier - it is not clear if Insall was one of the players affected Morrison reacts by kicking a sponsorship board after Dinamo Tbilisi scored a late winner But the club came in for criticism from politicians, with shadow health minister Davies saying 'drastic' action was needed if Morrison's comments were correct. 'You are left pretty dumbfounded to be honest with you that when those symptoms are showing, that a match went ahead where there is considerable personal interaction just by the very nature of playing football,' he told BBC Radio Wales Breakfast. 'Obviously I'd have to wait to find out more information, but if the manager's comments are correct then something drastic needs to happen here to make sure that safeguards are put in place that you can't overrule the obvious symptoms and just play a match that could potentially spread to the wider community the virus affects.' Dejected Connah's Quay players reflect after losing the tie in the 97th minute on Thursday Wrexham said they were satisfied Connah’s Quay adhered to all protocols while using the Racecourse Ground with no players displaying any symptoms during a pre-match medical screening. A statement read: 'The club received a message from medical representatives of Connah’s Quay Nomads, confirming they had adhered to all protocols. 'This was forwarded to the relevant authorities and, based on the contents of that message, the decision was taken by the relevant authorities to allow the game to go ahead.' They had already planned to deep clean all areas of their stadium before their own players returned next week.  UEFA declined to comment on the matter when contacted by Sportsmail, while the Football Association of Wales said they were awaiting a response from Connor's Quay regarding the manager's comments. Sportsmail has contacted Public Health Wales and Dinamo Tbilisi for comment.
Gary Ablett claims COVID-19 vaccine will 'change our DNA' in rant AFL legend Gary Ablett Sr has taken to YouTube to deliver a complex rant linking the coronavirus pandemic to 'End Times' biblical prophecies, and conspiracy theories about Freemasons and the Illuminati. The 27-minutes long video filmed in his car and posted to YouTube on Friday provided a very rare insight into the state of mind of a man who many regard as the greatest to have played the sport. Ablett, 58, who had seldom spoken publicly throughout his playing career and since, made up for lost time with an extraordinary video that linked COVID-19 to the 'new world order' and the second coming of Jesus Christ. Scroll down for video.  AFL legend Gary Ablett Sr (pictured) has taken to YouTube in a bizarre rant linking the coronavirus pandemic to a litany of conspiracy theories. The normally reclusive Australian sporting icon is regarded as one of the greatest-ever AFL players with 1031 goals in 248 matches during the 1980s 'It's not natural. It didn't come from bats. They're lying to us and they have been for decades,' Mr Ablett said of the virus. 'It was man made in a lab. Deliberately designed and deliberately released.' 'They don't want a cure. Why? Because they want us to take their vaccines. And their vaccines are going to kill us. They want to wipe out billions of people.' The 58-year-old says later in the video that the development of a vaccine is part of a 'trans-humanist' plot. 'These vaccines they are talking about, they want to change our DNA and there are things in them… and they are trying to link us up with artificial intelligence so we can both give and receive messages.'  Ablett, who is the father of dual Brownlow Medallist Gary Ablett Jr, said the virus is 'camouflage' for globalist agendas like the introduction of a one-world currency and the banning of cash.   Gary Ablett Jr (pictured with his wife Jordan and his son Levi) followed in his father's footsteps playing 352 matches for Geelong and the Gold Coast  'They need to crash the global economy… [so that] cash will be gone and what they are trying to bring in is their global digital currency,' he said. 'A one-world money system that is going to lead to the mark of the beast.' Mr Ablett repeatedly touched on religious themes in the lengthy monologue and said the rapture - when Christians are unified with God - was 'imminent'. He also argued the Victorian Premier was being used by those who were conducting the conspiracy. 'Daniel Andrews is nothing but a puppet to a very corrupt establishment and Victoria is the test case for what they are wanting to do in the entire nation,' Mr Ablett said. 'We need to wake up and rise up and stand against this stuff and expose them for who they really are because it’s all satanic. 'The only real answer for the world at this time is to repent of your sins and give your heart to Jesus Christ.'  Gary Ablett Jr (pictured with his wife Jordan and his son Levi) won two Brownlow medals during his career
Love Island winners Josh and Anna almost broke up during lockdown After falling in love and winning the second season of Love Island Australia last year, Josh Packham and Anna McEvoy moved into together in June.   And on Friday, the couple offered insight into how they have been coping throughout Victoria's strict lockdown in their Melbourne apartment. Speaking in a fan Q&A in a YouTube video, the reality stars revealed that the COVID-19 pandemic as put a strain on their relationship.    Lovebirds: After falling in love, and winning, the second season of Love Island Australia last year, Josh Packham and Anna McEvoy (both pictured) moved into together in June One interested fan asked: 'How has your relationship with Josh been?' 'Its been good,' Anna said, before admitting: 'It's been testing during COVID'.   Josh added: 'We've definitely stepped on each others toes too much being stuck in an apartment, trapped.'   Revelations: On Friday, the couple offered insight into how they have been coping throughout lockdown in their Melbourne apartment 'I'm sure heaps of people feel the same way. Sometimes in a relationship you need a bit of space from one another for it to be healthy, but Covid lockdown does not allow for that.'   Back in June, the genetically blessed influencers decided to move in together after only six months of dating.   In a YouTube video Anna admitted that the move may have been a little quick given how short their relationship is, but said she's happy nonetheless.  Tough times: Speaking in a fan Q&A in a YouTube video, the reality stars revealed that the COVID-19 pandemic as put a strain on their relationship 'We've only been going out for six months so it's actually pretty quick,' she said.  'What we decided is that we need to live a normal life where we can live together but also just do our own thing.'  Josh added: 'It's different for me because obviously I miss living in Sydney. It's a big change — the weather is freezing here.'    Big move: Back in June, the genetically blessed influencers decided to move in together after only six months of dating 
On-the-spot Covid-19 test that's 94% accurate An on-the-spot Covid test which delivers a result in 90 minutes could transform diagnosis in NHS hospitals this winter, experts say. A study published last night revealed the CovidNudge test – a machine the size of a shoebox – does not deliver any ‘false positive’ results, meaning all those who test positive are carrying the virus. It has a ‘specificity’ of 94 per cent – meaning 6 per cent of those given the all-clear will actually have the virus – but this is far better than the 70 per cent specificity rate seen with the standard Covid test. The NHS has already ordered 5,000 machines and 5.8million testing cartridges, at the cost of about £30 per test.  DnaNudge, the Imperial College London spinout company that makes the tests, has not revealed the price of its 'NudgeBox' portable analyser, but charged the UK £161million for 5,000 of them. The cost suggests that public sector organisations can buy a machine, plus cartridges to do around 1,200 tests, for £32,200 each. This is likely to be higher for private businesses if they decide to buy and use the same kits. The CovidNudge is a machine the size of a shoebox and delivers results in 90 minutes  Eventually the machines could be used in schools, theatres and even private homes. They were used by the London Symphony Orchestra last month to give musicians the all-clear to perform at the Proms. Some 10,000 people have been tested on the NHS so far, with a major roll-out due in the coming weeks. The machine is particularly useful for hospitals because it can be used at a patient’s bedside. Because the turnaround time is so quick, doctors can make rapid treatment decisions without waiting hours or days for laboratory results. The process involves collecting nasal and throat swabs and placing them on to a cartridge which goes into the NudgeBox for analysis. The device then looks for traces of genetic material belonging to the coronavirus. Each machine has the ability to process up to 15 tests on the spot each day. Professor Graham Cooke, of Imperial, whose evaluation of the machine was published in the Lancet Microbe journal, said: ‘This test is particularly well suited for clinical settings when you are trying to make a rapid decision for a patient.  The NHS has already ordered 5,000 machines and 5.8 million testing cartridges ‘For example, we had a patient from last week who had a new diagnosis of Covid. ‘We were able to get the diagnosis confirmed within two hours of arriving and start remdesivir and dexamethasone [drugs used to treat severe Covid-19] on that basis.’ The test is being used across eight London hospitals and is expected to be rolled out at a national level. Professor Cooke said there was no practical reason why it could not be used in someone’s home, but for now manufacturing was being targeted at healthcare use. And while the machine excels at speed, accuracy and ease of use, it is not the answer to the Government’s current testing problems, because each machine can process only one test at a time. ‘It is not the answer if you need millions of tests a day,’ Professor Cooke said. The team is also modifying the device so the test can simultaneously assess other respiratory diseases. Dr Bob Klaber, director of strategy at Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust, said: ‘Getting accurate results back to clinicians and their patients as quickly as possible makes a huge difference to how we safely manage clinical pathways and we are very much looking forward to rolling this out more widely.’ Professor Chris Toumazou, co-founder of DnaNudge, added: ‘The platform is well suited to testing in primary care and community settings with potential for use in non-healthcare settings such as care homes, schools, transport hubs, offices, and, to help bring the arts back, in theatres and venues.’
Alyssa Milano is still suffering the lingering effects of COVID-19 Alyssa Milano has revealed that she's still suffering the lingering effects of COVID-19, six months after she first experienced symptoms. The Hollywood actress, 47, continues to experience shortness of breath and even fever-induced hallucinations, putting her in the category of long COVID sufferers.  'There are still lingering effects, like I still have shortness of breath,' she said in an interview with Yahoo Entertainment. 'I still have heart palpitations.' Struggle: Alyssa Milano has revealed that she's still suffering the lingering effects of COVID-19, six months after she first experienced symptoms Continuing to list her ongoing symptoms, she continued: 'I have, like, a high-pitched noise in my ear. My hair is falling out. 'It doesn't feel like you're only physically sick. It feels like there's hallucinations because of fevers, there's weird dreams. I think it's because the brain is affected. That's why people lose their sense of smell.' The star also revealed her hopes for how preparations for the illness should be made in the future: 'We should definitely begin to shift the focus on post-COVID syndrome and, you know, try to figure out what the lasting repercussions are,' she said.  Telling her story: The star had previously revealed that she'd tested positive for COVID-19 antibodies after suffering from severe symptoms but getting negative results three times 'This is a really rough, rough illness,' insisted the former Who's The Boss? star. 'We can’t think that this is over and done with, because it surely is not.'  Earlier this month, Alyssa said on Instagram that in her wellness check that she is 'starting to physically feel better' as she continues her vitamin and aspirin regimen. The Charmed star said: 'Soooooo... how are you? This is a wellness check and a health update. I'm ok. I'm starting to physically feel better.' She continued: I'm still taking an aspirin ever 3 days to thin my blood, fish oil, vitamin D, C, zinc and a B complex. I still have occasional heart palpitations. I still forget my words (absolute worst part).' 'But it's not nearly as bad as it was a few weeks ago. I feel better. I had a ct scan of my lungs and a cardiac MRI and both were normal,' she said.  Alyssa added: 'I get super scared sometimes, though. Not of getting sick again but of my loved ones getting sick. I don't ever want them to have this thing. It's a beast. So I vacillate between being so grateful and so terrified.' Alyssa noted that she is 'grateful that it was me who got sick and terrified that friends or family will be sick. And I can't help but wonder - how are you? Please be safe. Please let me know you're ok.'  Alyssa shared two selfies while rocking a patterned top with her tresses loose around her.  Demonstration: Alyssa recently showed her shocking amount of hair loss as a result of having COVID-19 after experiencing acute symptoms in March Last month,  the actress took to Twitter to share a video of herself brushing her locks after a shower which resulted in her pulling out several strands. She began the video by saying: 'Hey everybody, I just wanted to show you the amount of hair that is coming out of my head as a result of COVID. People who experienced long-term symptoms of COVID-19 say hair loss is a side effect of the virus, according to recent studies. 'This is a detangler brush, my favorite detangler brush. As you can see in there is no hair in there right now.'   Milano began brushing through her brunette tresses while wearing a New York Giants robe as she kept pulling bunches of locks from her brush. Result: Last month, the actress took to Twitter to share a video of herself brushing her locks after a shower which resulted in her pulling out several strands  She concluded the video by lifting the entire bunch of long hairs and saying: 'One brushing, this is my hair loss from COVID-19. Wear a damn mask!' The actress captioned the shocking video to her followers writing: 'Thought I’d show you what #Covid19 does to your hair. Please take this seriously. #WearADamnMask #LongHauler.' Multiple clinics and studies have reported a link between COVID-19 and hair loss with survivors of the disease reporting their hair falling out in clumps. Experts say most COVID-19 patients are suffering telogen effluvium (TE), a temporary condition that involves hair shedding, caused by physical or emotional stress, high fever, illness or weight loss of over 20 pounds, according to WebMD. Showing off: She began the video by saying, 'Hey everybody, I just wanted to show you the amount of hair that is coming out of my head as a result of COVID' Alyssa recently revealed that she had tested positive for COVID-19 antibodies after testing negative three times after experiencing symptoms in April and said she is considered a 'long hauler' by physicians.  Last month, she shared a selfie wearing a rainbow while sitting in a hospital bed. She captioned the image: 'I was acutely sick w/ Covid19 in April. I still have many symptoms. I am what they call a “long hauler”. Last night, I had real heaviness in my chest.  'I went to the ER just to make sure it wasn’t a blood clot. Thankfully, it wasn’t. This virus sucks. Please take it seriously.' Hair loss: The former Who's The Boss? star showed fans all the strands of lost hair in her hands One fan asked where she believes that she had contracted the virus and Milano responded: 'Traveling between Portland, NY and LA. [sad face emoji]' Prior to the post, Alyssa revealed that she had tested positive for COVID-19 antibodies in a lengthy Instagram post. She opened up about her weeks-long battle with the coronavirus and the lingering symptoms she was left with after struggling to get a positive diagnosis. Alyssa said she was tested twice for the virus and once for antibodies and received negative results but pushed for a fourth test that finally revealed she was positive. 'This was me on April 2nd after being sick for 2 weeks,' she began in an Instagram caption. 'I had never been this kind of sick. Everything hurt. Loss of smell.  'It felt like an elephant was sitting on my chest. I couldn’t breathe. I couldn’t keep food in me. I lost 9 pounds in 2 weeks. I was confused. Low grade fever. And the headaches were horrible,' she said detailing her symptoms. The Charmed star added: 'I basically had every Covid symptom.' In the image posted, Milano is seen at the height of her illness sitting in bed with her reading glasses on, wearing a medical breathing mask. The actress said she was tested twice for COVID-19 in March and did a 'finger prick test' for antibodies once she was feeling better and all three came back negative. Despite the negative tests results, Alyssa explained that she had brutal lingering symptoms like 'vertigo, stomach abnormalities, irregular periods, heart palpitations, shortness of breath, zero short term memory, and general malaise.' 'Long hauler': Last month, she also shared a selfie wearing a rainbow while in a hospital bed The Who's the Boss star decided to listen to her body and seek out some additional blood work. 'I am POSITIVE for covid antibodies. I had Covid19,' Alyssa told her followers. 'I just want you to be aware that our testing system is flawed and we don’t know the real numbers.'  The podcaster added gravely: 'I also want you to know, this illness is not a hoax. I thought I was dying. It felt like I was dying.' Along with her sick bed selfie, the star shared a screen grab of her positive antibody result on social media. Alyssa said she is going to donate her plasma for antibody research with the hopes that it could save lives. 'Please take care of yourselves. Please wash your hands and wear a mask and social distance,' she implored. 'I don’t want anyone to feel the way I felt. Be well. I love you all (well, maybe not the trolls. Just the kind people.)' Rouh: Alyssa explained that she had brutal lingering symptoms like 'vertigo, stomach abnormalities, irregular periods, and heart palpitations, among others. Pictured in January
Lancashire 'will be placed under Covid curfew TOMORROW' Matt Hancock today admitted that a new national crackdown is on the cards as he warned infections are 'accelerating across the country' and more people will die. The Health Secretary pleaded with the public to 'come together to tackle this virus' as ministers consider imposing draconian restrictions for a fortnight in a 'circuit break' to stop the spread. The move could come as soon as next week, with pubs, restaurants and hotels facing being shut to prevent 'significant' casualties. In a round of interviews this morning, Mr Hancock said a national lockdown was the 'last line of defence'. But he warned that it was a 'big moment for the country' and the situation was 'deadly serious', with cases now doubling every eight days. Unless the 'Rule of Six' restrictions worked more would have to be done, he warned. 'The virus is clearly accelerating across the country,' Mr Hancock told Sky News. 'We have got to take the necessary action to keep people safe. We will do what it takes to keep people safe.'   It comes as 10million people are told to follow new lockdown rules as Lancashire is placed under curfew alongside the North East. The Government's chief science and medical officers have warned that another serious outbreak of coronavirus could lead to a significant number of deaths by the end of next month. Although there has been no final decision on new measures, they could involve restrictions on activities in public space and either the closure of pubs and restaurants or tough curfews. Schools and most workplaces would stay open to avoid the worst fallout for the economy and children - although the idea of conducting the lockdown over the half-term holidays in October is also on the table. That would potentially extend them to a fortnight.  The drastic steps are on the table as concerns grow about the shambolic testing system, with claims the Government's seven 'lighthouse labs' are in chaos due to shortages of staff and equipment.  A leading scientist warned that 'testing is dying on its a**e', adding he was 'appalled by what I saw' at the labs.   Concerns over new national rules come as: Boris Johnson on dealing with the 'inevitable' second wave Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg has died at age 87 People party in street in Nottingham despite second wave imminent Couple built natural swimming pool in back garden in two years Birmingham freshers enjoy night out in Birmingham city centre Daredevil climber spotted on Paris skyscraper bare hands Lord McColl says don't blame COVID rates on Government Horrifying moment toddlers are crushed by falling cabinet drawers Drinkers in Newcastle partake in messy night out prior to lockdown Paraglider pulls off perfect ground spiral manoeuvre Listen at an alligator inhaling helium in the name of science Fascinating new views of Jupiter taken by the Hubble Space Telescope A group of revellers enjoy a night out in Newcastle city tonight, the last evening before lockdown measures are brought in   The government is mulling what has been described as a 'circuit breaker' in a bid to stem the spread of coronavirus. But it would not be quite as draconian as the lockdown that was imposed at the previous height of the crisis in March. Instead it would be similar to the lockdowns that have been introduced locally in areas with high infection levels.  Curfews and restrictions on activities could be brought in nationwide for perhaps a fortnight, in the hope that short sharp action can break the chain of transmission. Pubs and restaurants could either be ordered to close altogether, or have their opening hours severely restricted.  But non-essential shops and workplaces would stay open, to avoid further disastrous damage to the economy.  Schools would also be kept going, after ministers warned of the massive impact on the prospects of pupils.  However, there is speculation the curbs could be introduced over the half-term at the end of October - if the government can wait that long with cases doubling every eight days. Confirming the SAGE advisory board had considered the option, one scientist on the panel told the FT: 'As schools will be closed for one week at half-term, adding an extra week to that will have limited impact on education.' Recent analysis from Imperial College London suggests Covid-19 rates are doubling every seven to eight days. The unnamed scientist warned rising coronavirus levels could 'break the NHS', criticising the Government's test-and-trace system by warning it was 'creaking at the seams'. On Wednesday, Boris Johnson told a committee of MPs: 'I don't want a second national lockdown. I think it would be completely wrong for this country and we are going to do everything in our power to prevent it.'  But the Government's Scientific Pandemic Influenza Group on Modelling (SPI-M) has been considering a two-week shutdown in October. Asked about the prospect of blanket curbs, Mr Hancock said: 'It isn't something that we ever take off the table, but it isn't something that we want to see either. 'The country once again needs to come together and recognise there is a serious challenge. That the virus is accelerating. 'Unfortunately, it isn't just cases increasing, it's also the number of people ending up in hospital increasing.'  Restrictions are being announced later today for almost all of Lancashire, coming into force tomorrow. But the BBC this morning said the government was considering extending the curfews across the whole of England after Chief Medical Officer Professor Chris Whitty and Chief Scientific Officer Sir Patrick Vallance warned of another significant outbreak if precautions are not stepped up.  Drinkers flocked to watering holes in the northeast last night after Matt Hancock confirmed the region would be hit by a 10pm curfew on pubs and bars starting tonight. Baroness Dido Harding (right) was grilled by MPs Demand for Covid tests is up to four times the system's capacity, Baroness Harding admitted today. The Tory peer revealed the staggering mismatch between the number of people wanting tests and the ability to carry them out as she claimed 27 per cent have no symptoms. Extraordinarily. she said no-one had 'expected' the 'sizeable' increase in demand - although it was widely predicted, blaming SAGE for getting their estimates wrong. Lady Harding has been hauled before MPs to explain the shambles that has left thousands struggling to get checked. She told the Science Committee that she did not have precise numbers for how many people wanted tests. But she said phone calls and website visits suggested it was 'three to four times the number of tests we have available'. Brazenly passing the buck for the chaos, Lady Harding said: 'We built our capacity plans based on SAGE modelling for what we should be preparing for in the Autumn.' Lady Harding confirmed the capacity now for diagnostic tests is just under 243,000 per day - a figure that the government has failed to publish for more than a week. Thousands of tests are being sent abroad to be processed, she said. She said the government was 'on track' to increase capacity to 500,000 tests a day by the end of October - although that would cover all types of tests, not just for whether people currently have coronavirus. And she conceded that will not be enough. 'I am certain we will need more as we go beyond the end of October,' she said.   Around 9.2 million Britons have already been put under tougher local lockdown restrictions because of a spike in cases of coronavirus, but that figure could be about to rise beyond 10million.  The Northeast saw a busy night in bars before its curfew came into force at midnight, meaning different households are prevented from mixing and making pubs and restaurants close at 10pm. The city of Preston, along with towns including Blackburn, Burnley, Lancaster and Morecambe are expected to be included in the new curfew. Blackpool will be exempted, it was reported.  Locals are also set to be told to only use buses and trains for essential trips such as to work, school and health appointments, according to LancsLive. It is not yet known why Blackpool is expected to be excluded from the otherwise county-wide restrictions.   It comes as pubs, bars and restaurants in all the affected areas in the North East —Northumberland, North Tyneside, South Tyneside Newcastle-upon-Tyne, Gateshead, Sunderland and County Durham — are now only allowed to offer table service.  Sean Southern from The Gateshead Arms told MailOnline of the impact the new restrictions are likely to have on business. He said: 'We used to be open until 12.30am, then because of Covid we reduced that to 11pm and now we're being told we have to shut at 10pm. 'Those hours are absolutely crucial for us, and probably our busiest time for those who want to have a few drinks before going further afield or going home. 'There's a few bars in the area which have closed down over the last few weeks and so we've sort of taken on those customers as well as our regulars recently. 'Things seemed to be getting better and then all of a sudden we're told last night that there's going to be big changes and we haven't really had time to prepare. 'People forget that closing at 10pm also has an impact on staff who might have wanted to pick up a few extra hours.' Some 2,350 pubs and restaurants ware affected by the measures, according to real estate adviser Altus Group.  Speaking about the number of Britons under lockdown rules hitting 10million, shadow health secretary Jonathan Ashworth said: 'Labour warned months ago that unless the Government spent the summer fixing the testing regime then we would face a bleak winter. 'The Government ignored that advice, the testing regime is collapsing and so it is not surprising national restrictions are back on the table.' The government is facing a growing backlash as the 'world class' testing system creaks under the pressure of rising cases. Mounting requests for swabs as children return to school and workers head back to their desks, together with logistical chaos, has caused havoc.  Testing tsar Baroness Dido Harding revealed yesterday that demand for Covid screening is up to four times the system's capacity.  And extraordinarily, she claimed that no-one had predicted the spike in demand - blaming the modelling from the government's own SAGE experts. Science committee chair Greg Clark told the Tory peer that her words were 'dispiriting', pointing out it was obvious that there would be a huge surge in demand.  A reveller has her temperature checked by a bouncer before entering a venue in Newcastle city centre this evening Health Secretary Matt Hancock (pictured on Sky News today) pleaded with the public to 'come together to tackle this virus' as ministers consider imposing draconian restrictions for a fortnight in a 'circuit break' to stop the spread Dozens of drivers turned up at a test site to find there were no staff to swab them, on the day the Health Secretary announced tougher coronavirus measures for people in the north-east. People who had booked a test on Thursday at Doxford Park, an out-of-town business park in Sunderland, were told by the media they would not be tested, as there were no officials there to inform them. Some had been turned away on the approach to the centre by security guards, who told them the computers had crashed and to try again later. HGV mechanic Brad Cockburn, 28, made a 100-mile round trip from Bedale, North Yorkshire, only to find there were no staff, not even a tent or other infrastructure, at the site on the out-of-town business park. He said: 'There's no organisation, it's piss-poor performance as usual.' Rob Reid, a 58-year-old cash and carry manager from Sunderland, booked for 3.45pm, only to find there were no staff. He said: 'It annoys me. My concern is about my health and it comes across that the Government is not that concerned, when they are taking bookings on the NHS website and there's nobody here to do it.' However, deeper problems have been highlighted in the government's processes today, with claims the 'Lighthouse' lab centres are in turmoil.  Genomics scientist and inventor Phil Robinson told The Times they were poorly managed, running out of staff and failed to set up automatic processes before a second wave of infections.  He told the paper: 'Every part of the process was poor. The other ludicrous issue they have is they have 20 different types of tube coming into the lab. When you are running a high throughput lab it's only sensible to have one. Why they haven't standardised that I have no idea.' Lady Harding admitted yesterday that they were trying to automate far more of the processes.  Dozens of drivers turned up at a test site yesterday to find there were no staff to swab them, on the same day the tougher measures were announced. People who had booked a test on Thursday at Doxford Park, an out-of-town business park in Sunderland, were told by the media they would not be tested, as there were no officials there to inform them. Some had been turned away on the approach to the centre by security guards, who told them the computers had crashed and to try again later.   Around two million people live in the seven authorities, of which only three — Newcastle-upon-Tyne, Sunderland and Gateshead — were formally named on Public Health England's most up-to-date watchlist.  Council bosses argue they needed tougher measures across the region to prevent a full-blown lockdown and save lives.  Labour MPs in the North East welcomed the new measures outlined by Mr Hancock, while urging the Government to work better with local councils. In a joint letter to the minister, they said: 'We do (...) believe that this must be done in close collaboration with local authorities, who must have access to all appropriate information, data and support in order to make the best decisions for their areas.' Mr Hancock's announcement came after measures in the likes of Greater Manchester and Birmingham were put in place in a bid to address rising rates of infection. Meanwhile, at the Doxford Park site, drivers continued to turn up while others sat in the car park working out what to do next. HGV mechanic Brad Cockburn, 28, made a 100-mile round trip from Bedale, North Yorkshire, only to find there were no staff, not even a tent or other infrastructure, at the site on the out-of-town business park. He said: 'There's no organisation, it's piss-poor performance as usual.'  Boris Johnson on dealing with the 'inevitable' second wave Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg has died at age 87 People party in street in Nottingham despite second wave imminent Couple built natural swimming pool in back garden in two years Birmingham freshers enjoy night out in Birmingham city centre Daredevil climber spotted on Paris skyscraper bare hands Lord McColl says don't blame COVID rates on Government Horrifying moment toddlers are crushed by falling cabinet drawers Drinkers in Newcastle partake in messy night out prior to lockdown Paraglider pulls off perfect ground spiral manoeuvre Listen at an alligator inhaling helium in the name of science Joan Collins claims late sister sent her sign as house had power cut Matt Hancock announced in the Commons that Northumberland, North Tyneside, South Tyneside, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, Gateshead, Sunderland and County Durham will be subject to new restrictions from midnight tonight to curb the spread of the virus. The new restrictions are: People have also been advised to adhere to the following guidelines: The Health Secretary said they were necessary to stop the spread of the virus and prevent another lockdown. Rob Reid, a 58-year-old cash and carry manager from Sunderland, booked for 3.45pm, only to find there were no staff. He said: 'It annoys me. My concern is about my health and it comes across that the Government is not that concerned, when they are taking bookings on the NHS website and there's nobody here to do it.' Police said they will enforce the lockdown measures as a last resort. Superintendent Steve Long, of Durham Constabulary, said: 'The Government has announced that further local restrictions are necessary in addition to those already in place nationally. 'We would like to thank the vast majority of people who have taken personal responsibility, done the right thing and stuck to the guidance over the last few months. 'Our officers will continue to engage with the public, explain the new regulations and encourage people to act responsibly: only then will we move to enforcement as a last resort.'  Around 9.2million people across the UK are now in areas of intervention, including parts of Greater Manchester, Leicester and Scotland.  But neither Middlesbrough and Hartlepool in the North East, two other authorities officially named as a hotspot by Public Health England, were hit by the tough new measures.  The announcement comes amid fears thousands of students returning to university in the area could cause cases to rise even further.  Around 40,000 students are expected to flock back to Newcastle University in the coming days, as well as nearly 20,000 to Durham University.  Rising numbers of infections in London and Leeds have prompted warnings the cities may soon head in the same direction as the North East with additional restrictions.  And in North Yorkshire 'full emergency mode' has been declared after cases surged by 167 per cent in the first week of September.  Coronavirus cases have been increasing rapidly across NE England. Newcastle has recorded a sharp rise in its weekly infection rate, up from 51.2 cases for every 100,000 people to 64.1 in the seven days to September 13  KEY: Infection rate per 100,000. Are cases rising or falling? Have special measures been taken?  Bolton: 121.9 per 100,000. Rising. Intervention. Bradford: 72.2 per 100,000. Rising. Intervention. Oldham: 66.6 per 100,000. Rising. Intervention. Salford: 62.3 per 100,000. Rising. Intervention. Blackburn with Darwen: 61.8 per 100,000. Rising. Intervention. Preston: 59.9 per 100,000. Rising. Intervention. Pendle: 58 per 100,000. Falling. Intervention. Rochdale: 57.7 per 100,000. Rising. Intervention. Tameside: 56.8 per 100,000. Rising. Intervention. Manchester: 56.8 per 100,000. Rising. Intervention. Birmingham: 50.8 per 100,000. Rising. Intervention. Bury: 46.8 per 100,000. Rising. Intervention. Leicester: 43.1 per 100,000. Rising. Intervention. Kirklees: 36.9 per 100,000. Rising. Intervention. Solihull: 34.9 per 100,000. Rising. Intervention. Calderdale: 34.3 per 100,000. Rising. Intervention. Trafford: 31.3 per 100,000. Falling. Intervention. Sandwell: 22.6 per 100,000. Falling. Intervention. Rossendale: 80.4 per 100,000. Rising. Enhanced support. Burnley: 57.6 per 100,000. Rising. Enhanced support. South Tyneside: 50.6 per 100,000. Rising. Enhanced support. Leeds: 47.3 per 100,000. Rising. Enhanced support. Hyndburn: 42.1 per 100,000. Rising. Enhanced support. Gateshead: 40.5 per 100,000. Rising. Enhanced support. Sunderland: 32.4 per 100,000. Rising. Enhanced support. Newcastle-upon-Tyne: 28 per 100,000. Rising. Enhanced support. Stockport: 20.2 per 100,000. Rising. Enhanced support. Hertsmere: 53.7 per 100,000. Rising. Concern. Wirral: 43.6 per 100,000. Rising. Concern. Middlesbrough: 42 per 100,000. Rising. Concern. Hartlepool: 38.6 per 100,000. Rising. Concern. Corby: 35.3 per 100,000. Falling. Concern. Liverpool: 31.1 per 100,000. Rising. Concern. Sefton: 31.1 per 100,000. Rising. Concern. Knowsley: 30.1 per 100,000. Rising. Concern. Sheffield: 28.5 per 100,000. Rising. Concern. Peterborough: 27.9 per 100,000. Rising. Concern. Northampton: 25.8 per 100,000. Rising. Concern. Stoke-on-Trent: 25 per 100,000. Rising. Concern. St. Helens: 23.3 per 100,000. Rising. Concern. Great Yarmouth: 23.1 per 100,000. Falling. Concern. Norwich: 20.5 per 100,000. Rising. Concern. Swindon: 16.7 per 100,000. Falling. Concern. Breckland: 16.5 per 100,000. Falling. Concern. South Norfolk: 10.9 per 100,000. Rising. Concern. King's Lynn and West Norfolk: 4 per 100,000. Level. Concern. Broadland: 3.1 per 100,000. Rising. Concern. North Norfolk: 2.9 per 100,000. Rising. Concern. ENGLAND: 19.7 per 100,000. Rising.  Source: Public Health England The Prime Minister yesterday pleaded for Brits to 'save Christmas' by obeying his 'Rule of Six', warning that lockdown will only get stricter if the UK does not 'flatten the hump of the camel'.  Ministers batted away claims that chief medical officer Chris Whitty is pushing for a two-week national lockdown.  But it has now emerged that the prospect is real - albeit the restrictions would not be as draconian as those imposed in March. Leading experts have insisted the current spike in Covid-19 cases is nowhere near the scale of what was seen during the darkest days of the crisis in March and April, with one telling MailOnline: 'We are not near the stage of the peak.'   Meanwhile, the Government is expected to announce tighter restrictions on care home visits in areas with high numbers of coronavirus cases. Care homes in areas subject to local lockdowns may be advised to temporarily restrict visits in all but end-of-life situations, it is understood. For parts of the country where there is no local lockdown, but where community transmission is a cause for concern, an option officials are considering is advising that visits are restricted to one designated visitor per resident. The Government will set out further details of its social care action plan to help fight the spread of coronavirus over winter. The Financial Times reported that leading scientists advising the UK Government have proposed a two-week national lockdown in October to tackle the rising number of Covid-19 cases. The experts, from the Government's Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (Sage) and the Scientific Pandemic Influenza Group on Modelling (Spi-m), have suggested a lockdown to coincide with the October school half-term, it added. Newcastle City Council has sent proposals to the Department of Health for pubs and restaurants to close at 10pm and for people to be banned from socialising outside their bubble. London could be 'weeks away' from further restrictions as its infection rate has started to double every two weeks. Redbridge, in north-east London, has the highest rate of coronavirus infections at 38 per 100,000. It is followed by Hounslow, in the south-west, with 34.6 per 100,000, and Barking and Dagenham, also in the east, at 31.5 per 100,000.  Cllr Peter John, chairman of London councils, said he is 'massively worried' authorities will be forced to enact further restrictions as cases are 'only going in one direction and only going to speed up'. Kevin Fenton, PHE's director for London, has suggested that curfews could also be deployed in the capital. London boroughs have the power to order local lockdowns but, as people tend to move between local authority areas to work or study, it is not clear how this restriction would work.  A No10 spokesman said: 'Specifically in London, no restrictions are currently planned, the important thing is we ask people to remain vigilant and comply with the rule of six. 'We will always keep the transmission rate under review and any measures that we deem required'. Leeds has been told it has entered a 'critical phase' in transmission.  Council chief executive Tom Riordan yesterday said they are in a 'live situation' where cases are rising. Dozens of regions in the UK, including Greater Manchester and Leicester, have already been hit with local lockdowns.  North Yorkshire has been put into 'full emergency mode', meaning testing facilities have been redirected to areas of greatest need, care homes receiving extra support and the brakes put onto the reopening of social care day services. The North Yorkshire Local Resilience Forum - which includes emergency services, local authorities and the NHS - has labelled Selby, Harrogate and parts of Scarborough and Craven as places of concern owing to rising case numbers. Richard Flinton, the chair of North Yorkshire's resilience forum has warned they are seeing a 'worrying rise' in cases as he called on the whole county to 'act now' to stop the spread of the virus.  Mr Flinton said: 'We thank everybody again for their many sacrifices.  'However, as we have seen nationally and around the world, cases are rising again and the threat of the virus is a real and present danger.'  'We know how quickly infection rates can change and we are calling on the whole county to act now with us in response. 'Please show extra restraint and caution and to take additional actions above and beyond those required nationally to help us try to avoid another lockdown here.'    Government sources have told The Telegraph that Boris Johnson is desperate to tackle rising cases through placing a curfew on the hospitality sector. Downing Street officials insisted all options were still be on table, despite warnings that ordering pubs to close early — like has been done in Bolton — would be 'devastating'.  The action comes amid warnings that schools could be forced to close by default in the coming weeks because of a massive shortage of tests across the UK.  'Lockdown is the only thing that we know works, to be frank,' one government science adviser told ITV. The dire prospect has been raised amid fears that the disease is on the verge of spiralling out of control again. Although cases have spiked to nearly 4,000 a day, it had been mainly among younger people, who are less likely to be badly affected.  But now Covid-19 cases are soaring among middle-aged people in England and have risen by upwards of 90 per cent in a fortnight as the outbreak continues to grow. Public Health England (PHE) data reveals 23.4 cases are now diagnosed for every 100,000 people aged between 40 and 49 — up from 12.4 at the end of August. And coronavirus infection rates have nearly doubled in just a week for people in their fifties, jumping from 10.9 to 20.  The 'Rule of Six' imposed by Boris Johnson on Monday makes it illegal to have larger gatherings, although in Scotland and Wales children under 12 do not need to be counted in the numbers.  Ministers have suggested they are following the example of Belgium, where a surge appears to have been tackled using tight limits on gatherings and curfews.  A senior member of the government told ITV's Robert Peston that there was 'no possibility of us waiting for the death rate to rise before we act'. Passengers commute on the busy London underground London's infection rate is doubling every two weeks, the chair of the capital's councils has warned. Sounding a grim note Cllr Peter John told Times Radio he was 'massively worried' about further restrictions being hiked on the city in the coming weeks. 'We are seeing in London at the moment infection rates doubling every fortnight,' he said. 'It is only going in one direction and only going to speed up.' He also warned that testing rates for London had been cut by a fifth, leaving authorities less able to stop emerging infection spikes. It comes amid mounting concerns the return of more than half a million students could cause an additional spike in infections. A No10 spokesman told the Sun: 'Specifically in London, no restrictions are currently planned, the important thing is we ask people to remain vigilant and comply with the rule of six. 'We will always keep the transmission rate under review and any measures that we deem required'. Government data shows the number of cases has been rising in the capital since late July, but began to surge upwards at the end of August.  The largest number of cases has been recorded in those aged 25 to 29, followed by 30 to 34-year-olds. They added that the government will reassess whether the 'Rule of Six' has been enough to control the situation in fortnight - but there is a widespread view that schools should not be shut again. A leading scientific advisor reportedly said: 'I think that if we want to keep schools open, we probably have to give serious consideration to a wide range of other measures to stop a major second wave. 'And we have to think about doing that right now - which we are starting to do.' Mr Johnson said he understood a negative test had been returned for Sir Keir's child, adding: 'I don't know why he is not here.' The Labour leader was advised to self-isolate on Monday while awaiting the result of a test for a member of his household who showed possible symptoms of Covid-19. Less than half an hour before PMQs was due to begin, Sir Keir said he was 'very pleased and relieved that the test result for one of my children came back negative this morning'. A decision had been made on Tuesday for his deputy, Ms Rayner, to take his place at the question session. The possibility of a harsher crackdown comes despite a major Tory backlash at the restrictions on everyday life.  Justice Secretary Robert Buckland yesterday denied that the 'rule of six' would effectively cancel Christmas, following criticisms from a source close to the Archbishop of Canterbury about the social restrictions imposed this week to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Speaking to BBC Radio 4's Today programme, the Cabinet minister said: 'Archbishop Justin (Welby) makes an important contribution to this debate and he is right to point to the huge spiritual and social significance of Christmas.  'I don't think any of us in Government want to be Oliver Cromwell-esque about this - we want to see families celebrate Christmas in a safe and happy way and we want to see our churches and indeed our other places of worship joining in that celebration.'  Mr Buckland added: 'We are not going to cancel Christmas but the 'rule of six' is something that is clear and important and I do think we've committed to that and we need to stick to it.'  Health Secretary Matt Hancock has batted away furious demands for young children to be exempted from the rules in England to save Christmas.  He was repeatedly pressed on the 'unfair and inflexible' restrictions as he made a statement in the Commons. But while Mr Hancock insisted he understood the 'impact' the rules were having, he said 'simplicity' was crucial for them to be effective. Senior Conservatives lined up to urge the government to copy the Scottish and Welsh administrations, which have said that children aged under 12 do not count towards the limit on gatherings. Lockdowns are imposed on local areas in response to a rise in infections, putting people's lives at risk. There's no specific infection rate threshold after which a local lockdown is triggered, a Public Health England spokesman said, but rather it is a decision taken by local authorities and government based on advice from health professionals. The professionals watch measures including the rate of change in infection rate, number of cases, level of demand for A&E, and which demographic has the most infections, to advise when and if further restrictions should be imposed. The 'nuanced' and 'bespoke' approach means restrictions are re-imposed in regions with differing numbers of cases per 100,000. Home Secretary Priti Patel warned on Tuesday that two families bumping into each other on the street would be breaking the new law. She said more than half-a-dozen people stopping to chat after accidentally meeting up would constitute 'mingling'. Lawyers questioned whether that was the case - but No10 offered backing, saying: 'You can expect the police to ask you to disperse.'  Ms Patel also said she would report her own neighbours for any behaviour she believed was 'inappropriate' and risked spreading the virus.  The comments came as police complained that they had been left in the dark on how to enforce the tough restrictions, with no guidance and widespread anger among the public.    The most up-to-date PHE data, which was released on Friday, clearly shows cases are spiralling across every age group. People in their twenties — who aren't as vulnerable to the disease and are likely to escape death or serious illness — are driving the spike with an infection rate of 46, which has doubled in the last three weeks  Public Health England (PHE) data reveals 23.4 cases are now diagnosed for every 100,000 people aged between 40 and 49 — up from 12.4 at the end of August. And coronavirus infection rates have nearly doubled in just a week for people in their fifties, jumping from 10.9 to 20  People suffering from coronavirus symptoms should get a test within five days of symptoms appearing, the NHS says.  Its advice page says anyone suffering from the symptoms - a high temperature, continuous cough and loss of their sense of taste or smell - to get tested as soon as they can.  'If you have symptoms, get a test as soon as possible,' they said. 'You need to get the test done in the first five days of having symptoms'. But amid England's mounting testing fiasco - with people in virus hotspots unable to access any swabs - a message has been posted saying those unable to get tested should 'try again in a few hours'. Who should get tested for coronavirus? The NHS says that anyone who develops symptoms of coronavirus should get a test. These are: They add that a select group of other people will also be able to access testing. These are people who:  Who should not get a coronavirus test? Matt Hancock has claimed up to one-in-four tests are being given out to people who are not eligible for them. He said he has heard stories of whole schools applying for them after one case of coronavirus was recorded there, and of people getting them because they are going on holiday. This is not what the testing system has been designed for, he said. and it means that people who need a test cannot get one.  Source: NHS   But he urged people without symptoms to stay away from testing centres – although he acknowledged the reasons why they may want to find out if they had Covid-19. 'What has happened is demand has massively accelerated just in the last couple of weeks,' he told MPs.  Professor Andrew Hayward, one of the government's SAGE experts, said around half a million people every day could be expected to display symptoms similar to coroanvirus at this time of year, even before the pandemic appeared. That would be far above the government's current claimed testing capacity of around 375,000 - although they have never carried out that many in a single day.  Prof Hayward, director of University College London's Institute of Epidemiology & Health, said: 'The background to this of course is that we would expect the demand and the capacity to need to rise quite rapidly over the autumn and winter as the number of people who develop symptoms that could be Covid increase. 'Some of our research has shown that at least in the winter, you would expect about half a million people a day to develop symptoms that are typical of Covid – and that would be in a winter when there was no Covid – so you can see that the capacity requirements will have to increase dramatically if we are going to keep up.'  Hundreds of schools have been partially or completely closed because of coronavirus cases - both proven and suspected - leading to fears of a domino effect, resulting in parents not being able to go to work and the return of empty offices. More than one in 10 children were not in classes last Thursday, figures show, amid fears the growing number of pupils and staff awaiting tests could cripple parent confidence in getting their children back to school. It comes after teachers held a protest outside the Department for Education, arguing that the lack of tests, and the inability of staff, pupils and parents to get to the front of the queue, is stopping schools returning to normal. One told the i that they had been unable to book a test for their daughter on Sunday either online or on the phone despite trying on an hourly basis.  Her efforts involved driving to a local test centre, which proved to be closed, and then to Gatwick, where there were no queues but she was turned away as for not having booked. The public had been told to seek tests 'if in doubt'. But checks by the Mail found that 46 of the 49 virus hotspots – including Bolton, Bradford and Oldham – had no swabs to offer.  Preston, one of the three areas  providing tests said they were not available until January – and 22 miles away. There have been reports that Mr Hancock is considering making GPs 'gatekeepers' for the system.  However, that could put surgeries under massive strain, with complaints that appointment are already extremely difficult to access in many areas.  Long queues were seen outside testing centres yesterday, involving many desperate people who had failed to get an online appointment but turned up anyway.  Lines formed in Southend – but in a sign of the general chaos – other test centres such as in Leeds were nearly empty.  Dr Patrick Roach, general secretary of the NASUWT teaching union, has called on the Government to prioritise the education sector for the allocation of tests. In a letter to the schools minister, Dr Roach said the union had heard of approximately 600 pupils being told to self-isolate in Bury and the situation was 'increasingly out of control'. 'Teachers, support staff and children and young people are unable to access tests where they have Covid-19 symptoms,' he wrote. 'Employers are struggling to deal with the implications and consequences.' He added: 'We have reports that schools are unable to cope with a situation that is becoming increasingly out of control.' The founder of Oasis Community Learning, which is responsible for 31,500 children at 52 academies across England, said 1,200 pupils had been sent home over the first six days of the new school year. Writing in The Sun, Steve Chalke added: 'The reason is either pupils or teachers have symptoms and can't return until they get a negative test result.'    One MP said her constituents in Twickenham, south-west London, had been told to travel to Aberdeen to book a test.  Munira Wilson, Lib Dem health spokesman, said: 'We were promised a world-beating test and trace system but what we have at the moment is an utter shambles.' Mr Johnson swiped at Keir Starmer for failing to face him at PMQs today after the Labour leader revealed one of his children has tested negative for coronavirus. The Labour leader said he was 'pleased and relieved' to be out of self-isolation after two days waiting for the result. However, he skipped the showdown in the Commons this lunchtime, with deputy Angela Rayner standing in. She raised the case of 'Keir' at the despatch box, saying he had needed to miss work because he had not received the result of a test in time. But Mr Johnson pointed out that Sir Keir was now out of quarantine. 'I don't know quite why he is not here.' The premier defended the shambolic testing arrangements, despite warnings that schools are on the brink of becoming 'unsustainable' due to delays. 'Eighty-nine per cent of those that have in person tests get (results) the next day,' Mr Johnson said. 'We are working very fast to turn around all the test requests that we get.'  Struggling to explain the causes of the problems, Mr Johnson said: 'The British people, quite understandably, are responding to that system, with a huge, huge surge in demand.' He insisted it was 'important that everybody follows the guidance about when they should be getting a test'. Ms Rayner called on the Prime Minister to 'get some skates on' in delivering testing and PPE to care homes ahead of winter. 'The Prime Minister has put his faith in Operation Moonshot, but meanwhile on planet Earth there are no NHS tests available for several high-infection areas,' she said. She asked: 'Can the Prime Minister confirm yes or no, do all care homes in this country have weekly tests?' Mr Johnson replied: 'Yes, to the best of my knowledge care homes in this country… should get weekly tests for all staff members and tests every 28 days for those who are in the care homes, the residents in the care homes.' The premier also complained that Labour was 'carping from the sidelines' while the government tried to deal with 'one of the most difficult dilemmas' ever faced by any administration.  Appearing before the education select committee today, Gavin Williamson revealed he had met the government's Test & Trace tsar Baroness Harding this week to insist there must be 'swift' screening available for schools. The most up-to-date PHE data, which was released on Friday, clearly shows cases are spiralling across every age group. People in their twenties — who aren't as vulnerable to the disease and are likely to escape death or serious illness — are driving the spike with an infection rate of 46, which has doubled in the last three weeks  Covid-19 cases are soaring among middle-aged people in England and have risen by upwards of 90 per cent in a fortnight as the outbreak continues to grow, official figures show. Public Health England (PHE) data reveals 23.4 cases are now diagnosed for every 100,000 people aged between 40 and 49 — up from 12.4 at the end of August. And coronavirus infection rates have nearly doubled in just a week for people in their fifties, jumping from 10.9 to 20. The most up-to-date PHE data, which was released on Friday, clearly shows cases are increasing across every age group. People in their twenties — who aren't as vulnerable to the disease and are likely to escape death or serious illness — are driving the spike with an infection rate of 46, which has doubled in three weeks. Fears of a second wave are growing as the number of Britons being diagnosed with Covid-19 each day has topped 3,000 for the first time since May. Ministers have also been spooked by spiralling outbreaks in Spain and France and rising hospital admissions on the continent. Hospital admissions — another way of measuring the severity of the pandemic — have doubled in England over the past nine days. More than 150 newly-infected patients required NHS treatment on Sunday, up from a rolling seven-day average of 52 on the last day of August.   'We've always been conscious that with children coming back into schools there was going to be a situation where people would need more access to testing. That is why we ensured those deliveries of tests to every school in England. That is why this morning we opened the ordering system, for schools to be able to order new tests, for them to be able to get those directly from the NHS,' he said. Mr Williamson said he had stressed to Lady Harding that testing for schools must be a 'priority'. 'Just this week I met with baroness Harding from test and trace and the NHS, highlighting some concerns that schools have had in terms of the turnaround and to ensure that teachers are able to get tested as swiftly as possible, and they are able to be in a position to be back to teaching at the earliest possible stage.' Mr Williamson dodged questions over whether the government could guarantee testing results for schools within 48 hours, but added: 'The reason I had my meeting with Baroness Harding, as you can imagine, is to continue to emphasise the importance and the priority that we have to put on all our schools and education settings, about how vital it is that we always ensure there is swift testing available.' Committee chairman Robert Halfon told BBC Radio 4's World at One later that he had been told schools would be a priority under Mr Hancock's new scheme. 'As I understand it, schools will be on the priority list,' Mr Halfon told the programme. Department for Education sources said they had little control over the provision for schools, suggesting it was a 'problem in the labs'. 'We don't run testing. We don't oversee testing. It is a DHSC thing,' one source said. An ally of Mr Williamson told MailOnline they had doubts about whether schools were the main part of the extra demand, pointing out that 1.6million children went back in June and July and 'we didn't see any of this'. The ally added: 'There is definitely frustration there.'  Ministers first faced a crisis over testing early on in the first wave of Covid when a campaign by the Mail led to Mr Hancock vowing to deliver 100,000 tests a day. That pledge was later raised to 200,000, then 500,000 by the end of October and now four million by next February under the ambitious 'Operation Moonshot'. However, the system has been thrown back into chaos in recent days because demand for tests has massively increased, overwhelming laboratories. The surge has resulted from a rise in daily cases, the return of schools, the rolling-out of regular swabs to care homes and an increase in outbreaks. There have also been rumours of logistical problems at laboratories.  As a result, there has been a deluge of complaints that people cannot access tests locally or that they have to wait too long to find out if they are positive or negative. Schools have been closed while teachers wait for results on sick pupils. NHS leaders warn of a crisis in hospitals, with medics forced to stay away from work and operations cancelled. Figures today showed that, including antibody and surveillance screening, 221,192 tests were carried out across the UK in the previous 24 hours. That was down from 227,075 yesterday, 231,969 on Monday and from 250,839 on Sunday. The last time it was lower was September 9, when just 209,609 were conducted. However, the government has not published a figure for the overall capacity since September 10, when it was claimed to be 374,917. The Department of Health has refused to reveal how many people are trying to get swabs. The number of people actually getting tested has gone up by 23 per cent since the end of August while capacity has increased by 12 per cent - although it is now not known. Sodexo, which runs the centres, has posted job adverts for people to staff the drive- and walk-in sites as the UK scrambles to prepare for surging numbers of cases as infections are now on the rise in people of all age groups in England. Labour MPs have called the testing fiasco a 'farce' and 'unacceptable', while scientists admit they are seriously concerned that the Government hasn't prepared for what they've known for months would eventually happen. Professor Alan McNally, a geneticist at the University of Birmingham who helped set up a Government lab in Milton Keynes, told BBC Breakfast yesterday there were 'clearly underlying issues which nobody wants to tell us about'. He said: 'I think there is a surge in demand [and] I think our stated capacity is very different from actually how many tests can be run in a given day.'    Dr Joshua Moon, from the University of Sussex Business School, added: 'One of the deeper issues is why we are seeing an acute shortage when total tests per day currently sit at two thirds of the government's claimed testing capacity.  'I am particularly worried about why the claimed capacity was so much higher than it actually was.  'Without proper understanding of the system's capacity, there is a fundamental weakness in ability to plan for the future.' In a round of broadcast interviews this morning, Justice Secretary Robert Buckland said testing capacity was 'ramping up' to deal with the demand. He said Mr Hancock would put forward the 'priority' list 'in the next few days'.  Speaking to Sky News, Mr Buckland said: 'I'm not shying away from the current issue but what I'm trying to explain is that rather than us sitting back and pretending all is well, we have accepted the scale of the challenge, we're ramping up the test centres, we have increased laboratory capacity, new labs coming on-stream so we can get that quick turnaround.' He added: 'The fact the Government kept on saying about the dangers of a second wave, at all times the Prime Minister, all of us, were absolutely focused on the dangers of the second wave – we have seen what's happening in France. 'We absolutely are onto this in terms of understanding that through the autumn, if we are to get the balance between getting the economy back on track and getting children into school, then all of us now have a special responsibility to follow all those guidelines and do whatever it takes to beat this virus.' The testing meltdown has come in the context of a spike in coronavirus cases, with fears that the situation is on the verge of spiralling out of control again.   Britons could face an even tougher lockdown within two weeks unless the Rule of Six brings down coronavirus cases, it was claimed today. Ministers and government officials insist they are ready to take more draconian steps to stop the spread, despite a wave of criticism. Options on the table could range from curfews to closing pubs - although there is a determination that schools will stay open.    Local areas where cases are above 20 per 100,000 Bolton 204.1 (587), 152.0 (437) Oadby and Wigston 136.8 (78), 52.6 (30) Hyndburn 132.0 (107), 64.2 (52) Preston 125.8 (180), 75.5 (108) Burnley 124.8 (111), 70.9 (63) Blackburn with Darwen 120.2 (180), 73.5 (110) Oldham 114.7 (272), 66.6 (158) Liverpool 106.4 (530), 56.8 (283) Tameside 105.1 (238), 75.1 (170) Warrington 104.8 (220), 57.6 (121) Knowsley 102.7 (155), 51.0 (77) St Helens 101.3 (183), 50.4 (91) Rossendale 96.5 (69), 44.8 (32) Bradford 93.6 (505), 82.8 (447) South Tyneside 93.4 (141), 60.9 (92) Wirral 91.7 (297), 66.0 (214) Rochdale 90.8 (202), 68.8 (153) Leicester 89.8 (318), 60.7 (215) Salford 89.6 (232), 75.3 (195) Bury 85.9 (164), 70.2 (134) Birmingham 83.4 (952), 80.9 (924) Sunderland 82.1 (228), 73.5 (204) Gateshead 81.7 (165), 58.4 (118) Manchester 79.9 (442), 68.7 (380) Leeds 72.9 (578), 66.1 (524) Halton 72.6 (94), 28.6 (37) Pendle 71.7 (66), 58.6 (54) Kirklees 70.7 (311), 42.7 (188) Solihull 68.4 (148), 64.7 (140) Newcastle upon Tyne 64.1 (194), 51.2 (155) Blaby 63.0 (64), 53.2 (54) Sandwell 62.4 (205), 41.7 (137) Calderdale 58.6 (124), 45.4 (96) Wolverhampton 55.4 (146), 41.4 (109) Barrow-in-Furness 53.7 (36), 29.8 (20) Sefton 52.5 (145), 37.3 (103) Hartlepool 52.3 (49), 52.3 (49) Rugby 51.4 (56), 28.5 (31) Selby 49.7 (45), 47.5 (43) Wyre 49.1 (55), 23.2 (26) South Ribble 48.7 (54), 39.7 (44) Sheffield 47.7 (279), 38.1 (223) North Tyneside 46.7 (97), 37.5 (78) Wigan 45.3 (149), 37.7 (124) Stockport 45.0 (132), 32.7 (96) Chorley 44.8 (53), 20.3 (24) Spelthorne 44.1 (44), 31.0 (31) Windsor and Maidenhead 43.6 (66), 20.5 (31) High Peak 43.2 (40), 25.9 (24) Trafford 43.0 (102), 32.9 (78) Corby 41.5 (30), 47.1 (34) Rotherham 41.4 (110), 30.1 (80) St Albans 39.7 (59), 20.9 (31) Charnwood 38.7 (72), 20.4 (38) Craven 38.5 (22), 26.3 (15) Redbridge 38.3 (117), 35.4 (108) Northampton 38.3 (86), 33.4 (75) Scarborough 37.7 (41), 39.5 (43) County Durham 37.4 (198), 32.4 (172) Bolsover 37.2 (30), 18.6 (15) Fylde 37.1 (30), 17.3 (14) Hounslow 36.8 (100), 30.2 (82) Kettering 36.4 (37), 28.5 (29) Middlesbrough 36.2 (51), 51.8 (73) Walsall 36.1 (103), 25.2 (72) Broxtowe 36.0 (41), 40.3 (46) Mansfield 34.8 (38), 26.5 (29) Stevenage 34.2 (30), 17.1 (15) Coventry 33.4 (124), 27.5 (102) Wakefield 33.0 (115), 25.3 (88) Ashfield 32.8 (42), 28.9 (37) Cannock Chase 32.8 (33), 12.9 (13) Barking and Dagenham 32.4 (69), 30.1 (64) Blackpool 32.3 (45), 22.9 (32) Hambleton 31.7 (29), 10.9 (10) Hertsmere 31.5 (33), 49.6 (52) York 30.9 (65), 14.2 (30) West Lancashire 30.6 (35), 38.5 (44) Amber Valley 30.4 (39), 14.0 (18) Stockton-on-Tees 30.4 (60), 24.3 (48) Enfield 30.3 (101), 23.4 (78) South Staffordshire 30.2 (34), 24.0 (27) Wellingborough 30.1 (24), 18.8 (15) Nottingham 30.0 (100), 31.8 (106) Cheshire West and Chester 30.0 (103), 19.8 (68) Castle Point 29.9 (27), 16.6 (15) Harborough 29.8 (28), 20.3 (19) Havering 29.7 (77), 33.5 (87) North East Derbyshire 29.6 (30), 17.7 (18) Welwyn Hatfield 29.3 (36), 18.7 (23) Stoke-on-Trent 29.3 (75), 30.0 (77) Harrogate 29.2 (47), 34.8 (56) Ealing 29.0 (99), 20.8 (71) Tamworth 28.7 (22), 20.9 (16) Hammersmith and Fulham 28.6 (53), 28.6 (53) Hackney and City of London 28.5 (83), 19.9 (58) Bromsgrove 28.0 (28), 29.0 (29) Runnymede 28.0 (25), 15.7 (14) Malvern Hills 28.0 (22), 30.5 (24) Luton 27.7 (59), 26.3 (56) Dudley 27.4 (88), 24.6 (79) Newham 27.2 (96), 30.6 (108) Peterborough 26.2 (53), 26.2 (53) Northumberland 25.7 (83), 21.1 (68) Chesterfield 25.7 (27), 20.0 (21) Haringey 25.7 (69), 25.3 (68) Oxford 25.6 (39), 23.6 (36) Barnsley 25.5 (63), 32.8 (81) Wandsworth 25.5 (84), 24.6 (81) Tower Hamlets 25.3 (82), 28.6 (93) Rushcliffe 25.2 (30), 23.5 (28) North Lincolnshire 25.0 (43), 11.0 (19) Hinckley and Bosworth 24.7 (28), 11.5 (13) Harrow 24.7 (62), 26.3 (66) Darlington 24.3 (26), 14.0 (15) Kensington and Chelsea 24.3 (38), 33.9 (53) Waltham Forest 23.8 (66), 16.2 (45) Cheshire East 23.7 (91), 23.9 (92) Brent 23.3 (77), 18.2 (60) Lancaster 23.3 (34), 14.4 (21) Lincoln 23.2 (23), 44.3 (44) West Lindsey 23.0 (22), 16.7 (16) Camden 23.0 (62), 13.3 (36) Brighton and Hove 22.7 (66), 13.1 (38) East Staffordshire 22.5 (27), 35.1 (42) Slough 22.1 (33), 21.4 (32) Doncaster 21.8 (68), 11.2 (35) Lambeth 21.8 (71), 27.0 (88) Adur 21.8 (14), 15.6 (10) South Kesteven 21.8 (31), 14.0 (20) Newcastle-under-Lyme 21.6 (28), 23.9 (31) Horsham 21.6 (31), 9.0 (13) East Riding of Yorkshire 21.4 (73), 10.8 (37) North Kesteven 21.4 (25), 26.5 (31) Bedford 21.4 (37), 19.0 (33) Bracknell Forest 21.2 (26), 19.6 (24) Barnet 21.0 (83), 26.0 (103) Erewash 20.8 (24), 14.7 (17) Nuneaton and Bedworth 20.8 (27), 13.9 (18) Wyre Forest 20.7 (21), 10.9 (11) Southwark 20.7 (66), 21.0 (67) Stafford 20.4 (28), 21.1 (29) Derby 20.2 (52), 16.3 (42) Wychavon 20.1 (26), 20.9 (27) South Bucks 20.0 (14), 15.7 (11) Local areas where cases are below 20 per 100,000 Ribble Valley 19.7 (12), 14.8 (9) South Derbyshire 19.6 (21), 22.4 (24) Tandridge 19.3 (17), 13.6 (12) Herefordshire 19.2 (37), 12.4 (24) Richmond upon Thames 19.2 (38), 20.2 (40) Redcar and Cleveland 19.0 (26), 29.9 (41) Gedling 18.7 (22), 16.1 (19) Dartford 18.6 (21), 5.3 (6) Watford 18.6 (18), 26.9 (26) Hillingdon 18.6 (57), 22.8 (70) Lichfield 18.1 (19), 16.2 (17) Greenwich 18.1 (52), 12.2 (35) Rushmoor 18.0 (17), 11.6 (11) Lewisham 17.7 (54), 18.3 (56) Melton 17.6 (9), 31.2 (16) Plymouth 17.6 (46), 13.0 (34) Reigate and Banstead 17.5 (26), 16.1 (24) Kingston upon Thames 17.5 (31), 17.5 (31) Bournemouth, Christchurch and Poole 17.2 (68), 17.7 (70) Worthing 17.2 (19), 29.8 (33) Newark and Sherwood 17.2 (21), 16.3 (20) Merton 16.9 (35), 15.0 (31) Islington 16.9 (41), 23.1 (56) West Suffolk 16.8 (30), 15.6 (28) Richmondshire 16.8 (9), 7.4 (4) Westminster 16.5 (43), 22.6 (59) Daventry 16.3 (14), 17.5 (15) Three Rivers 16.1 (15), 18.2 (17) East Northamptonshire 15.9 (15), 23.3 (22) Warwick 15.3 (22), 15.3 (22) Redditch 15.2 (13), 11.7 (10) Croydon 15.0 (58), 19.1 (74) Basildon 15.0 (28), 16.6 (31) Woking 14.9 (15), 17.9 (18) Southend-on-Sea 14.7 (27), 13.7 (25) South Gloucestershire 14.7 (42), 13.3 (38) Huntingdonshire 14.6 (26), 3.9 (7) Broxbourne 14.4 (14), 16.4 (16) Brentwood 14.3 (11), 15.6 (12) North Hertfordshire 14.2 (19), 18.0 (24) Bromley 14.1 (47), 16.5 (55) Cherwell 14.0 (21), 10.6 (16) Elmbridge 13.9 (19), 24.9 (34) Worcester 13.8 (14), 12.8 (13) South Holland 13.7 (13), 3.2 (3) Chiltern 13.6 (13), 20.8 (20) Shropshire 13.3 (43), 11.5 (37) Allerdale 13.3 (13), 12.3 (12) Staffordshire Moorlands 13.2 (13), 20.3 (20) Copeland 13.2 (9), 2.9 (2) Bristol 13.2 (61), 19.6 (91) Eden 13.1 (7), 11.3 (6) Great Yarmouth 13.1 (13), 17.1 (17) Mendip 13.0 (15), 12.1 (14) Epping Forest 12.9 (17), 12.1 (16) Cheltenham 12.9 (15), 12.0 (14) Bexley 12.9 (32), 10.5 (26) Breckland 12.9 (18), 11.4 (16) Rochford 12.6 (11), 6.9 (6) Rutland 12.5 (5), 5.0 (2) Central Bedfordshire 12.5 (36), 10.7 (31) Crawley 12.5 (14), 7.1 (8) Telford and Wrekin 12.2 (22), 15.0 (27) Portsmouth 12.1 (26), 10.7 (23) North Somerset 12.1 (26), 26.5 (57) East Lindsey 12.0 (17), 7.8 (11) Hastings 11.9 (11), 13.0 (12) Fenland 11.8 (12), 2.9 (3) South Northamptonshire 11.6 (11), 12.7 (12) Sutton 11.6 (24), 13.6 (28) Mole Valley 11.5 (10), 11.5 (10) Wycombe 11.5 (20), 15.5 (27) South Lakeland 11.4 (12), 17.1 (18) Guildford 11.4 (17), 14.1 (21) Tonbridge and Malling 11.4 (15), 6.1 (8) Cambridge 11.2 (14), 16.0 (20) Epsom and Ewell 11.2 (9), 22.3 (18) Milton Keynes 11.1 (30), 14.1 (38) Bassetlaw 11.1 (13), 13.6 (16) Thurrock 10.9 (19), 11.5 (20) Hull 10.8 (28), 10.0 (26) Chichester 10.7 (13), 14.0 (17) North Warwickshire 10.7 (7), 19.9 (13) Norwich 10.7 (15), 12.8 (18) Wokingham 10.5 (18), 10.5 (18) Forest of Dean 10.4 (9), 5.8 (5) Swindon 10.4 (23), 16.2 (36) Havant 10.3 (13), 3.2 (4) Gravesham 10.3 (11), 10.3 (11) Stratford-on-Avon 10.0 (13), 14.6 (19) Boston 10.0 (7), 5.7 (4) West Oxfordshire 9.9 (11), 17.2 (19) Chelmsford 9.5 (17), 11.8 (21) Test Valley 9.5 (12), 26.9 (34) Southampton 9.5 (24), 8.3 (21) Fareham 9.5 (11), 11.2 (13) New Forest 9.4 (17), 25.0 (45) South Cambridgeshire 9.4 (15), 11.3 (18) Swale 9.3 (14), 19.3 (29) Reading 9.3 (15), 21.0 (34) Tunbridge Wells 9.3 (11), 20.2 (24) Harlow 9.2 (8), 5.7 (5) Exeter 9.1 (12), 10.7 (14) Ryedale 9.0 (5), 12.6 (7) Aylesbury Vale 9.0 (18), 7.5 (15) Surrey Heath 9.0 (8), 17.9 (16) Cornwall and Isles of Scilly 8.9 (51), 5.8 (33) Vale of White Horse 8.8 (12), 13.2 (18) Waverley 8.7 (11), 18.2 (23) East Hertfordshire 8.7 (13), 9.3 (14) Mid Sussex 8.6 (13), 13.9 (21) Tewkesbury 8.4 (8), 6.3 (6) East Suffolk 8.4 (21), 6.4 (16) Dacorum 8.4 (13), 14.9 (23) Stroud 8.3 (10), 9.2 (11) Sevenoaks 8.3 (10), 13.3 (16) Wiltshire 8.2 (41), 19.0 (95) Cotswold 7.8 (7), 8.9 (8) Thanet 7.8 (11), 2.8 (4) Gloucester 7.7 (10), 9.3 (12) Somerset West and Taunton 7.7 (12), 9.0 (14) North East Lincolnshire 7.5 (12), 9.4 (15) Wealden 7.4 (12), 14.2 (23) Torridge 7.3 (5), 8.8 (6) Sedgemoor 7.3 (9), 7.3 (9) Ipswich 7.3 (10), 8.0 (11) South Norfolk 7.1 (10), 7.1 (10) Derbyshire Dales 6.9 (5), 6.9 (5) Broadland 6.9 (9), 10.7 (14) Arun 6.8 (11), 16.8 (27) North West Leicestershire 6.8 (7), 15.4 (16) Eastbourne 6.7 (7), 26.0 (27) Mid Suffolk 6.7 (7), 6.7 (7) Uttlesford 6.6 (6), 26.3 (24) Medway 6.5 (18), 8.3 (23) Carlisle 6.4 (7), 12.0 (13) Winchester 6.4 (8), 5.6 (7) Bath and North East Somerset 6.2 (12), 17.6 (34) Hart 6.2 (6), 7.2 (7) Colchester 6.2 (12), 6.7 (13) Dorset 6.1 (23), 10.3 (39) King's Lynn and West Norfolk 5.9 (9), 7.3 (11) Gosport 5.9 (5), 3.5 (3) Maidstone 5.8 (10), 9.3 (16) West Berkshire 5.7 (9), 9.5 (15) South Oxfordshire 5.6 (8), 12.7 (18) East Devon 5.5 (8), 12.3 (18) Folkestone and Hythe 5.3 (6), 9.7 (11) Teignbridge 5.2 (7), 6.7 (9) North Devon 5.1 (5), 10.3 (10) Basingstoke and Deane 5.1 (9), 6.8 (12) Isle of Wight 4.9 (7), 6.3 (9) East Hampshire 4.9 (6), 13.1 (16) Lewes 4.8 (5), 11.6 (12) Canterbury 4.8 (8), 9.1 (15) Eastleigh 4.5 (6), 6.7 (9) Rother 4.2 (4), 16.7 (16) Braintree 3.9 (6), 7.2 (11) Mid Devon 3.6 (3), 7.3 (6) South Somerset 3.6 (6), 8.9 (15) Maldon 3.1 (2), 4.6 (3) Ashford 3.1 (4), 5.4 (7) Tendring 2.7 (4), 2.0 (3) Dover 2.5 (3), 14.4 (17) South Hams 2.3 (2), 10.3 (9) East Cambridgeshire 2.2 (2), 2.2 (2) Babergh 2.2 (2), 10.9 (10) West Devon 1.8 (1), 3.6 (2) North Norfolk 1.0 (1), 3.8 (4) Torbay 0.7 (1), 10.3 (14)  
Is the coronavirus pandemic putting your career in jeopardy? The coronavirus pandemic is likely to accelerate a loss of employment for careers that are already competing with technological change, a new study claims.  Economics Professor Jeff Borland, from the University of Melbourne, found routine manual jobs such as factory workers, drivers and sales assistants would be hit hard by the crisis.  'Past recessions in Australia brought accelerated losses of jobs already under threat from technological change and globalisation,' he told Daily Mail Australia. 'Should that pattern be repeated in the COVID-19 recession, routine manual and cognitive jobs will be most at risk.'  In addition to these professions are those which have been directly impacted by lockdown restrictions such as aviation jobs and retail.  The coronavirus pandemic is likely to accelerate a loss of employment for careers which are already competing with technological change, such as manual construction jobs (pictured)  While cleaners are considered a routine manual job the specifics around COVID-19 should see this industry remain safe (pictured)  In a report from September 14, Prof Borland said Australia's labour market was likely to face structural change due to the global health crisis.  A structural change refers to a large scale shift in the industries in which people are employed.   In the past, recessions have led to accelerated employment losses in routine manual occupations Prof Borland said.  These industries are the those which have to continuously compete with automation and technological change resulting in slower growth in employment.  'In recessions in Australia in the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s, slow‐downs in employment growth and job destruction were concentrated in manufacturing, construction and trade industries – and among workers in trades occupations,' he wrote in the report. 'The extent of concentration of the employment impact by industry and occupation, however, became less in later recessions.'  Retail workers will be facing significant challenges in the post-coronavirus world with consumer spending patterns shifting to online, combined with automated technology such as self-checkouts.  Uber and cab drivers have also seen a downturn in business after coronavirus lockdowns caused travel to drop (pictured)  Factory workers are also one of the specific professions that have seen the brunt of job losses during past recessions as jobs are automated.  The report also states administrative staff will also be at risk of their roles being automated by information technology software.   Border closures will also have an effect on the structure of the workforce Prof Borland claims, predicting the aviation industry and universities will struggle to bounce back. 'With on‐going restrictions regrading international travel, the composition of employment will shift away from international aviation and tourism; and higher education,' the report states.  Lockdowns have also affected Uber and cab drivers, with the majority of people opting to stay in rather than venture out for entertainment or work.  People using digital technology more during lockdowns will also contribute to a shift in the labour market.   'If online meeting tools permanently capture just a small share of the inter‐state meeting market, that would have consequences for domestic aviation. Or increased use of online banking may cause banks to rethink some existing branch locations.'  Prof Borland predicts the first major shift in the workforce structure will be seen when JobKeeper winds up in March 2021 with further changes to follow as the workforce stabilises.  Beauty therapy (pictured) has been a profession that has grown in recent years and should remain resistant to the employment effects of the coronavirus  MORE AT RISK  ROUTINE COGNITIVE JOBS - 1 PER CENT GROWTH 2009 TO 2019 Secretary, Administration, Receptionist, Call Centre Operator  ROUTINE MANUAL JOB - 1.3 PER CENT GROWTH 2009 TO 2019 Mechanic, Construction, Factory Worker, Road and Rail Driver, Labourer  SAFER   NON-ROUTINE COGNITIVE JOBS - 2.4 PER CENT GROWTH 2009 TO 2019 Executives, Engineers, Media, Marketing, Scientists, Doctors, Lawyers, I.T. NON-ROUTINE MANUAL JOBS - 2.7 PER CENT GROWTH 2009 TO 2019 Health workers, Hospitality, Personal Trainers, Beauty Technician, Sales
Firm behind 20-second Heathrow Covid tests row back on success claims Hopes for a 20-second Covid-19 test that could save the airline industry have been hit back after the firm behind the it rowed back on their claim of a succesful initial trial. British startup iAbra were said to have developed a saliva test that used machine learning to detect the virus in only 20 seconds. Heathrow airport agreed to run a trial of the Virolens test with passengers over three weeks, which the company said had been 'successful' and would lead to clinical trials. The share price of TT Electronics, who manufacture the device, shot up 40 per cent after performance data was released, valuing it at about £440 million. Hopes for a 20-second Covid-19 test that could save the airline industry have been hit back after the firm behind the it rowed back on their claim of a succesful initial trial. Pictured from left: Greg Compton, Shane Tingey, Justin Phillimore and Richard Tyson with their testing device However, scientists at Bristol said they were not involved with designing the study and had only supplied Iabra with harmless inactivated samples of the coronavirus that causes Covid-19. A spokesman for Iabra said the original statement had been released by mistake. 'Virolens is a new application of AI technology that has been developed collaboratively over the past ten years,' they told The Times.  'It has the potential to make a significant difference to Covid testing, but it is currently embarking on functional and clinical trials and it wouldn't be appropriate to comment further until the results of those are known. We are poised to roll out once we receive the requisite approval.' The new Virolens test, which is said to provide results in 20 seconds, was given a three-week trial at Heathrow Airport which the company said was 'successful' However, Bristol virologist David Matthews said it was still possible that the technology could work. 'If it does, they're going to be billionaires overnight but they have to hand over the device, leave the room and let it be tested,' he said. iAbra previously said that 'the Virolens system has a 99.8 per cent sensitivity and 96.7 per cent specificity, based on the results of an internal in-vitro validation study, designed by the University of Bristol, demonstrating an exciting proof of concept'.  The test uses a sophisticated form of microscopy, analysed by AI, to detect virus particles in saliva samples. The development comes as a blow for Heathrow boss John Holland-Kaye, who had urged the Government to fast track the Covid-19 test to help the airline industry The company, which has only four employees said the test does not need to be administered by healthcare professionals and is repeatable, with each screening device capable of carrying out hundreds of tests per day. If successful, the Virolens test could replace the current gold standard polymerase chain reaction (PCR) tests that are conducted in labs use swabs and need to be processed at different temperatures, meaning it takes longer to get results. The development comes as a blow for Heathrow CEO John Holland-Kaye, who said last week that iAbra's technology was 'potentially more accurate' than standard tests used to detect the virus. He had also encouraged the government to 'fast-track this technology'. A spokesman for Heathrow said: 'Our research into testing solutions continues and Heathrow has not placed an order with Iabra for any further pilots at this stage.' Greg Compton, 33, Iabra's chief executive, told the Financial Times that any mistakes in the original press release had not been 'done with any malice'. It comes after Boris Johnson pledged to increase testing capacity to 500,000 tests a day by the end of October at the Downing Street press conference last week. Outlining the 'ambitious' plans, he said: 'We think, we hope, we believe that new types of tests which are simple, quick and scaleable will become available and they use swabs, or saliva, and can turn around, results in 90, or even 20 minutes. 'Crucially, it should be possible to deploy these tests on a far bigger scale than any country has yet achieved, literally millions of tests, being processed every single day.'
Ian Somerhalder hits the COVID-era red carpet for his new documentary Ian Somerhalder appeared at the socially distanced premiere of his upcoming  documentary, Kiss the Ground, on Wednesday.   As Hollywood events are being totally reworked in the wake of the coronavirus  pandemic, the 41-year-old actor and executive producer attended his first drive-in screening in an olive green t-shirt and dark-wash denim bottoms. The hunky Vampire Diaries alum appeared in high sprits, as he posed for a number of solo shots, before he was joined by the film's director, Rebecca Harrell Tickell.  Executive producer: Ian Somerhalder appeared at the socially distanced premiere of his upcoming documentary, Kiss the Ground, on Wednesday While the pair posed for a few shots wearing masks, which had the name of the Woody Harrelson-narrated documentary emblazoned on them, they eventually slid them.  Despite strict CDC guidelines urging people to keep their mouths and noses covered in public spaces, the duo couldn't help but cheekily kiss the ground.  Additionally, Somerhalder sported a wide grin, as he expressed his gratitude by placing his two hands together, in a gesture of appreciation. COVID-era red carpet: As Hollywood events are being totally reworked in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, the 41-year-old actor and executive producer attended his first drive-in screening in an olive green t-shirt and dark-wash denim bottoms Posing: The hunky Vampire Diaries alum appeared in high sprits, as he posed for a number of solo shots, before he was joined by the film's director, Rebecca Harrell Tickell Masked up: While the pair posed for a few shots wearing masks, which had the name of the Woody Harrelson-narrated documentary emblazoned on them, they slid them Rebecca opted to slip into a glamorous emerald gown, as they led the pack in celebrity arrivals, which also included Jason Alexander.  The 60-year-old Seinfeld opted for a casual look, as he rocked a grey button-down, jeans and a pair of sneakers.  Not long after, Blanca Blanco and John Savage appeared at the screening.  Kissing the ground: Despite strict CDC guidelines urging people to keep their mouths and noses covered in public spaces, the duo couldn't help but cheekily kiss the ground Grateful: Additionally, Somerhalder sported a wide grin, as he expressed his gratitude and placed his two hands firmly together, in a gesture of appreciation Making an entrance: Rebecca opted to slip into a glamorous emerald gown, as they led the pack in celebrity arrivals, which also included Jason Alexander Blanco, 39, dressed to impress, as she donned a baby blue, thigh-skimming dress with a floral pattern. She paired her semi-sheer frock with a pair of butterfly earrings and bold eyeshadow. Meanwhile, her 71-year-old longtime partner wore a patterned button-down and tan trousers.  Supportive: The 60-year-old Seinfeld opted for a casual look, as he rocked a grey button-down, jeans and a pair of sneakers Back: He made his red carpet return at the special drive-in screening  The new Netflix documentary, which will be released on September 22, takes a closer look at climate control and ways we can change the way we treat our planet.  Created by filmmakers Josh and Rebecca Tickell, Kiss the Ground aims to show viewers how to stabilize the Earth's climate, restore ecosystems, and replenish food supplies.  'There's so much bad news about our planet, it's overwhelming. Truth is, I've given up,' the film's narrator, Woody Harrelson, told People last month. 'This is the story of a simple solution, a way to heal our planet. The solution is right under our feet — and it's as old as dirt.'  Looking good: Not long after, Blanca Blanco and John Savage appeared at the screening Dynamic duo: Meanwhile, her 71-year-old longtime partner wore a patterned button-down and tan trousers The outlet revealed the film's trailer detailed how 'destroying soil in agriculture has created an influx of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere.' 'To cure our planet we need to cure our soil,' a title card reads, with an expert speaking about biosequestration.  The star-studded documentary includes appearances from Patricia Arquette, Gisele Bündchen, Jason Mraz, David Arquette and more.  Star approved: The star-studded documentary includes appearances from Patricia Arquette, Gisele Bündchen, Jason Mraz, David Arquette and more
Government could utilise emergency powers to give the public vaccine The government could use emergency powers to vaccinate the public against Covid-19, it was revealed last night. Ministers would utilise regulations to bypass EU laws if a vaccine becomes available prior to the end of the Brexit transition agreement on December 31, as reported by the i.  Even if a possible vaccine has not been passed by the European medicines watchdog the government will push to use it due to the threat the pandemic poses.   A consultation on the plans closes at midnight on Friday. The independent Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation (JCVI) is advising ministers on the use of any potential vaccine.  The government is keen to quell fears an unlicensed vaccine is unsafe and said it will go through several safety trials before being used on the general populace.  Ministers would utilise regulations to bypass EU laws if a vaccine becomes available prior to the end of the Brexit transition agreement on December 31 The document says: 'If a suitable Covid-19 vaccine candidate, with strong supporting evidence of safety, quality and efficacy, becomes available, we will seek to license that vaccine through the usual route.'  It adds: 'If there is a compelling case, on public health grounds, for using a vaccine before it is given a product licence, given the nature of the threat we face, the JCVI may take the very unusual step of advising the UK government to use a tested, unlicensed vaccine against Covid-19, and we need to make sure that the right legislative measures are in place to deal with that scenario.'   The i also revealed that the government is set to train members of the Armed Forces, health workers and midwives to administer the vaccine when it becomes available. The training is expected to start later in the Autumn so an expanded workforce can assist with the annual series of flu jabs. It comes as tough new measures to control the spread of coronavirus have come into effect in the north-east of England, taking the total number of people across the UK in lockdown to more than 10 million. The new restrictions cover Northumberland, North Tyneside, South Tyneside, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, Gateshead, Sunderland and County Durham and began at midnight. Residents are banned from socialising in homes or gardens with people outside their own households or support bubble, food and drink venues are restricted to table service only and leisure and entertainment venues must close at 10pm. The government is set to train members of the Armed Forces, health workers and midwives to administer the vaccine when it becomes available The changes run alongside the England-wide six-person limit on social gatherings. It takes the total number of people under in areas under additional restrictions across the UK to more than 10 million, covering parts of Scotland, south Wales, the north west and north east of England, Yorkshire and the Midlands. The new lockdown measures come amid reports that tougher restrictions are expected to be imposed on Lancashire. Shadow health secretary Jonathan Ashworth said: "Labour warned months ago that unless the Government spent the summer fixing the testing regime then we would face a bleak winter. "The Government ignored that advice, the testing regime is collapsing and so it is not surprising national restrictions are back on the table." Meanwhile, the Government is expected to announce tighter restrictions on care home visits in areas with high numbers of coronavirus cases. Care homes in areas subject to local lockdowns may be advised to temporarily restrict visits in all but end-of-life situations, it is understood. For parts of the country where there is no local lockdown, but where community transmission is a cause for concern, an option officials are considering is advising that visits are restricted to one designated visitor per resident. The Government will set out further details on Friday in its social care action plan to help fight the spread of coronavirus over winter. The Financial Times reported that leading scientists advising the UK Government have proposed a two-week national lockdown in October to tackle the rising number of Covid-19 cases. The experts, from the Government's Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (Sage) and the Scientific Pandemic Influenza Group on Modelling (Spi-m), have suggested a lockdown to coincide with the October school half-term, it added. It comes as the head of NHS Test and Trace denied it was "failing", and a senior minister hit out at people for "carping" about its flaws. Baroness Dido Harding - head of NHS Test and Trace - acknowledged demand was significantly outstripping capacity. But she said the size of the system had been based on modelling by the Government's scientific advisers, and suggested the problems were exacerbated by people without symptoms seeking tests for which they were ineligible. Faced with criticism of the shortage of tests, Commons Leader Jacob Rees-Mogg told MPs that "instead of this endless carping", people should "celebrate the phenomenal success of the British nation in getting up to a quarter of a million tests of a disease that nobody knew about until earlier in the year". New testing figures for England showed 33.3% of people who were swabbed at a regional site, local site or mobile testing unit received their result within 24 hours - despite Boris Johnson's promise that they would all be turned around within that timescale by the end of June. Some 73.9% of close contacts of people who tested positive for Covid-19 in England were reached through the Test and Trace system in the week ending September 9 up from 69.5% on the previous week, but below the 77.2% reached in the week to August 19. The latest figure showed an ability to carry out 242,817 tests a day, but the Government has pledged that will increase to 500,000 by the end of October. Figures on Thursday showed there had been a further 3,395 lab-confirmed cases of coronavirus in the UK, and 21 more people had died within 28 days of testing positive. This brings the UK death toll to 41,705, although separate figures published by the statistics agencies show 57,500 cases where Covid-19 was mentioned on a death certificate.  
New South Wales has recorded six new COVID-19 cases New South Wales has recorded six new coronavirus cases overnight.   Five cases were returned travellers in hotel quarantine while one has been linked to the Liverpool Hospital cluster, in western Sydney.   Twenty-one cases have now been linked to the hospital.  New South Wales Health warned the low numbers were no excuse for people to become complacent with the virus. Five cases were returned travellers in hotel quarantine while one has been linked to the Liverpool Hospital cluster (pictured), in western Sydney  New South Wales has recorded six new coronavirus cases overnight (pictured, health care workers at a pop-up COVID-19 testing clinic in Sydney) 'While the number of locally acquired cases recorded in the past 24 hours is low, the virus is likely circulating among people in the community with mild symptoms,' the department said. 'As such, the risk of outbreaks and a resurgence of cases remains.   'It’s vital that everyone who does have the virus is tested and diagnosed, in order to stop further spread to others.' Four people are currently being treated in the intensive care unit with two of them placed on ventilators.   'NSW Health is again urging anyone feeling unwell – even with the mildest of symptoms such as a runny nose or scratchy throat – to come forward and get tested, so cases in the community are identified as quickly as possible,' the department warned.  Five cases of COVID-19 were recorded in the state on Thursday. One of the cases had attended the Eastern Suburbs Legion Club in Waverley in Sydney's eastern suburbs.  Diners who attended a Thai restaurant in Casula in Sydney's south-west were also urged to get tested immediately.  Consistently low COVID-19 cases over the past few weeks has encouraged the state government to make a number of rollbacks on restrictions.  State premier Gladys Berejiklian has announced stadium capacity in the state would increase to 50 per cent. New South Wales Health warned the low numbers were no excuse for people to become complacent with the virus (pictured, commuters waiting at the Sydney light rail) Consistently low COVID-19 cases over the past days has encouraged the state government to make a number of rollbacks on restrictions (pictured, two women wear face masks while strolling around Sydney Harbour) Currently major venues are limited to 25 per cent capacity with a maximum of 10,000 guests. Patrons will still have to adhere to the four square metre rule and will be required to wear a mask while moving to their seats.  NSW will also move to relax restrictions around its border with Victoria.  The NSW border region will now be expanded to Pleasant Hills, Lockhart, Benalla, Bright and Mount Beauty.  Anyone in the areas with existing border region permits will be able to move freely. 
Testing guidelines published by the HHS without CDC approval The controversial guidance for testing for coronavirus as published on the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's website was not approved by the agency's scientists, it has been revealed.   Officials told the New York Times that the advice published August 24 was seen by CDC experts for review but was rewritten only by the Department of Human and Health Services and quietly made public.  The new advice sparked controversy and was slammed by public health experts for suggesting that a person without coronavirus symptoms does not need to be tested, even if they have had known contact with an infected person.     Thursday's report sparked further concerns as to the independence of the CDC after Politico reported last week that political appointees at the health department adjusted the CDC's weekly report on the virus.    The controversial guidance for testing for coronavirus as published on the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's website was not approved by the agency's scientists. Pictured, the agency's director Dr. Robert Redfield who edited the advice but did not rewrite it The new advice sparked controversy for suggesting that a person without coronavirus symptoms does not need testing, even if they have had known contact with an infected person CDC scientists seriously objected to the advice as it is written now, they told the Times report.  They said that while it was a CDC product and had been edited by the agency's director Dr. Robert Redfield, the HHS then flouted the CDC strict scientific review process, rewriting it themselves and having it 'dropped' on the website.     'That was a doc that came from the top down, from the HHS. and the task force,' one federal official said. 'That policy does not reflect what many people at the CDC. feel should be the policy.'  'The idea that someone at HHS. would write guidelines and have it posted under the CDC. banner is absolutely chilling,' added Dr. Richard Besser, who served as acting director at the Centers for Disease Control in 2009.  Some CDC officials say that the guidelines show obvious inconsistencies and mistakes for those in the know, mistakes that would not pass through the normally rigorous review.  Among them was a reference to 'testing for Covid-19' as opposed to testing for the virus that causes it.  'We just looked so sloppy,' one scientist said. 'That's what kills me is it didn't come from the inside.'  Experts who work closely with the CDC also said that the mistakes were obvious. 'You're used to reading Shakespeare and all of a sudden now you're reading a tabloid,' said Carlos del Rio, an infectious disease expert at Emory University. 'There was political pressure on CDC in the past, but I think this is unprecedented.'  'HHS. and the White House writing scientifically inaccurate statements such as "don't test all contacts" on CDC's website is like someone vandalizing a national monument with graffiti,' added Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, director of the agency during the Obama administration.  'The graffiti makes the whole monument look pretty bad.'  In an interview with the Times, Adm. Brett Giroir, the administration's testing coordinator and an assistant secretary at the HHS, the CDC's parent organization, confirmed that the original draft was constructed by the CDC.  Yet he admitted that he 'coordinated editing and input from the scientific and medical members of the task force'.  Admiral Brett Giroir, United States Assistant Secretary for Health, confirmed that the original draft was constructed by the CDC but that he oversaw the editing before publication Giroir added that it had been through 20 drafts before being published to the website and was seen by Redfield; Dr. Anthony Fauci and Dr. Deborah Birx from the White House coronavirus task force; and Dr. Scott Atlas, President Trump's adviser on the coronavirus.  'I think you have to ask Dr. Redfield about that. That certainly was not any direction from me whatsoever,' he answered when asked why the guidelines then went on to abandon the general CDC review process.  Redfield told The Hill in a statement that 'the guidelines, coordinated in conjunction with the White House Coronavirus Task Force, received appropriate attention, consultation and input from task force experts.' A new version of the guidelines is expected to be released on Friday but officials claim they have also not been vetted through the general CDC protocol.  The guidelines were reviewed by Dr. Anthony Fauci on the White House coronavirus task force  Redfield told a congressional hearing Wednesday that the agency was revising the recommendation and would post the revision, 'I hope before the end of the week.'  One official told the Times that it was written by a CDC scientist but was being edited by the HHS and the White House coronavirus task force.     As it stands, the guidelines state that people 'do not necessarily need a test' even if they have been in close contact with an infected person for more than 15 minutes.  It also suggests that people who 'have attended a public or private gathering of more than 10 people (without widespread mask wearing or physical distancing)' are only tested if they are 'vulnerable'.  The agency in fact recommends against people congregating in groups of this size.   The August 24 update was a disappointing blow for public health experts pushing for more testing, instead of less, as the coronavirus pandemic continues. They claim that it undermines efforts to keep the virus contained.    'Suggesting that asymptomatic people don't need testing is just a prescription for community spread and further disease and death,' said Dr. Susan Bailey, president of the American Medical Association.  Dr. Redfield tried to step back the guidelines shortly after they were first posted but they still remain the same on the CDC website. He suggested that a test 'may be considered for all close contacts'. The manner is which they were published also caused concern over the independence and effectiveness of the CDC, as coronavirus deaths in the United States edge closer to 200,000.  Some have suggested that they may be an effort to reduce the number of tests conducted so that the confirmed cases in the US is lower.  Some within the agency have described Dr. Redfield as a weak and ineffective leader who was not able to prevent White House interference.  'CDC scientists are running scared,' Scott Becker, chief executive of the Association of Public Health Laboratories, said. 'There's nothing they can do that gets them out of this blame game.'    Recently, President Trump suggested Dr. Redfield had made a mistake in this comments about wearing masks and when a coronavirus vaccine will be ready.  At Wednesday's Congressional hearing, he had said that face masks are more effective than a vaccine and that one would not be available for distribution until next year.  The CDC has also been criticized throughout the pandemic for the slow speed with which their guidance is issued. The review process on the advice they publish is the main reason, but it has been described by experts as 'painful but useful'.   Each document must be cleared by between 12 and 20 people before it can be made public.  At least eight drafts of the testing guidelines were circulated in August, the Times said, but any following objections from scientists were ignored.   This is not the first time that the long process has been overlooked.  In July, a document outlining the importance of reopening schools was also dropped on the CDC website, containing information that the agency's experts claim was out of step with the advice they would give. 
Brendan Fevola debuts another bizarre hairstyle in Melbourne lockdown Brendan Fevola is doing his best to keep himself amused through Melbourne's second lockdown.  During the first coronavirus lockdown, the 39-year-old AFL star experimented with several bizarre hairstyles, and on Thursday he was at it again, debuting yet another crazy 'do.  This time the FOX FM radio star rocked a half-shaved mullet.  What has happened to Brendan Fevola? Former AFL star debuted another bizarre hairstyle on Thursday as Melbourne's hard lockdown continues  Brendan had shaved the front half of his head completely bald, and left his dark curly locks at the back.  He hilariously captioned the snap: 'Looking grouse 2020'. It comes after Brendan unveiled several dramatic looks back in April.  The sports star dyed his hair green and purple to represent his employer's trademark logo during Melbourne's first lockdown.  'New day, new hair style': It comes after Brendan unveiled several dramatic looks back in April. The sports star dyed his hair green and purple to represent his employer's trademark logo 'New day, new hair style,' he wrote, before offering a spirited plug for his show with co-stars Fifi Box and Byron Cooke.  'Make sure you are tuning in 6 till 10 Mon to Fri,' he said, adding fans could also download the smart phone app.  Brendan also informed his legion of fans his daughter Leni did the dye job.  Blond Bombshell! He also rocked a platinum blonde 'do The shock look came after the AFL player, who is normally a brunette, admitted he 'got bored' while cooped up at home and decided to change his hair colour. After his hair initially went yellow, Brendan later unveiled a lighter blond colour after a second dye attempt.  'I'm so not posing here,' he cheekily wrote underneath in Instagram post with his peroxide blonde hair.    Killing time: The former AFL star is normally a brunette, but he admitted he 'got bored' on and decided to change up his hair colour  The former Carlton footy star then joked 'just a candid shot of my grouse look', alongside the hashtags 'new hair' and 'blonds have more fun'.  Brendan claimed he was channeling Eminem's Slim Shady look with his newly bleached hair and said: 'ISO got me doing weird s**t'.  Around the same time, the proud father-of-four revealed that he has found a novel way to keep his daughters Leni, Lulu and baby Tobi busy and well-behaved while homeschooling. Work in progress! Brendan revealed he was channelling Eminem's Slim Shady look when he rocked this look The media personality shared an Instagram photo showing a list of a chores and a bunch of snacks. The payment for these tasks was generous - $20 for cleaning their room, $50 for exercise and $20 for thirty minutes of reading.  In exchange for the payment, the girls could buy chocolates, chips and others snacks from the nearby shelf.  Wow!  Around the same time, the proud father-of-three revealed that he has found a novel way to keep his daughters Leni, Lulu and baby Tobi busy and well-behaved while homeschooling. The media personality shared an Instagram photo showing a list of a chores and a bunch of snacks But the prices were steep - $50 for popcorn, $25 for a snack sized bag of chips and a whopping $100 for ice cream.   The twist: the payments were not made in cash but Monopoly money, making the whole task a fun game.  Brendan captioned the photo:  'Best parent advice I've seen so far. Trying this with my kids see how we all go have a crack'. Good dad! Brendan is the father of four children - daughters Mia, Leni, Lulu and baby Tobi 
Victoria records 45 new coronavirus cases and five deaths Victoria has recorded 45 new coronavirus cases and five deaths as anti-lockdown protesters prepare to rally in Melbourne again. The new cases reported on Friday come after the state's daily infections dropped to 28 on Thursday - the first time the figures have been in the 20s since June 24.  The people who have died include one man in his 50s, one man in his 70s, one man in his 80s and two women in their 90s. All of those deaths are linked to aged care.  The daily update comes as disgruntled Melburnians revealed they are planning to take to the streets again in protest of the city's Stage Four lockdown restrictions.  Deputy Commissioner Rick Nugent told 3AW's Neil Mitchell police received a warning email from a protester.   Protesters have warned there will be further anti-lockdown rallies in Melbourne this weekend. Pictured: Police scuffle with protesters during an anti-lockdown protest in Melbourne on Sunday September 13 Over the last two weekends protesters have clashed with police at the Shrine Of Remembrance, The Tan track and Queen Victoria Market. Police arrested 74 people and issued at least 176 infringement notices during last Sunday's protest at the market. Pictured: Police move protesters on through the Queen Victoria Market 'The organiser of the protest sent an email to us … advising us that if we refuse to allow them we will be jeopardising the safety of others and Victoria Police would be putting all Victorians at risk,' he said. 'Unfortunately, we're just going to have to continue to drag police off other functions and other roles to police these people in the city.'  It will be the third weekend protesters have gathered at inner-city landmarks to rally against the state government's Stage Four restrictions in Melbourne.  Over the last two weekends protesters have clashed with police at the Shrine Of Remembrance, The Tan track and Queen Victoria Market. Police arrested 74 people and issued at least 176 infringement notices during last Sunday's protest at the market.  'We've had the Shrine, we've had the Tan, we've had the market,' Mr Nugent said.  'We'll just continue to enforce, I mean, the moment they turn up to protest it's a criminal offence.' Victoria recorded 45 new coronavirus cases and five deaths on Friday. Pictured: A resident walks along South Wharf in Melbourne as part of their permitted exercise on Wednesday Residents in regional Victoria are now enjoying eased coronavirus restrictions after they moved away from Stage Three lockdown at 11.59pm on Wednesday.     Pubs, cafes and restaurants are able to serve people outside with strict density quotas, while outdoor gathering limits will be upped to 10. Regional Victorians are also able to leave their homes without restriction and all shops can reopen. They will still be able to travel via Melbourne to reach other parts of the state, but can only stop for three reasons including food, care and permitted work and study. Caravan parks and camping grounds in regional areas were also allowed to reopen from Thursday, but with group booking restrictions. Melbourne residents who leave the city without a lawful excuse will be fined $4,957. The new offence is designed to deter Melburnians from entering regional Victoria. It will be bolstered by beefed-up roadblocks, creating lengthy traffic delays as vehicles pass through. Melbourne's new case average must stay between 30 to 50 for some of the city's restrictions to be eased as planned on September 28. Stage Three lockdown in regional Victoria was eased from 11.59pm on Wednesday. Pictured: Diners are seen at Central Nutrition on Thursday in Geelong
Some Australians could get a COVID-19 vaccine sooner than others Some Australians could be forced to wait longer than others when a COVID-19 vaccine does become available, experts have warned.     The Federal Government has locked in a deal to get access to the University of Oxford COVID-19 vaccine as early as January. Australians would receive 3.8million doses of the drug being developed by UK firm AstraZeneca in the first two months of next year. National Centre of Immunisation Research and Surveillance director Kristine Macartney told ABC the first batch would not be distributed on a first come, first serve basis.  'It's highly likely there will be a limited supply of the vaccine,' she said. 'That reinforces the need to decide on prioritisation.' Some Australians could be forced to wait longer than others when a COVID-19 vaccine becomes available, experts have warned (pictured, a nurse injects a volunteer during a COVID-19 vaccine trial) National Centre of Immunisation Research and Surveillance director Kristine Macartney told ABC the first batch would not be distributed on a first come, first serve basis (pictured, a commuter waits at a Melbourne train station) The Federal Government has locked in a deal to get access to the University of Oxford COVID-19 vaccine as early as January (pictured, prime minister Scott Morrison tours AstraZeneca laboratories at Macquarie Park in August) The Federal Government has yet to release specific details on how it intends to distribute a COVID-19 vaccine.  Draft advice for the United Kingdom and United States provides a footprint for a possible 'tier' system. Healthcare workers and vulnerable people are considered to be the top two priority groups.   The US has added a third priority group that includes essential services such as public transport, education and food supply workers.   The country has also suggested it could use a lottery system to decide who receives the vaccine first. Oxford University's Health Economics Research Centre director Philip Clarke said the US was already using this system in hospitals during the pandemic. 'In the case of COVID-19, this is actually happening in the US where you haven't got enough drugs for the treatment of COVID-19, they are actually randomly allocating them, so it's fair rather than potentially people making arbitrary choices,' he said.   The Australian Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation has been advising the government on future rollout plans. The group has been regularly meeting to discuss key strategies that include distribution, manufacturing capacity and safety evaluations of the vaccine. Plunkett Centre of Ethics' postdoctoral research fellow Xavier Symons admitted it was a difficult road ahead.  Oxford University's Health Economics Research Centre director Philip Clarke said the US was already using this system in hospitals during the pandemic (pictured, a volunteer receives a jab during a COVID-19 vaccine trial) 'In other countries the issue may be, 'How do we convince people to be vaccinated?' but in Australia it's more like, 'How can we ensure that everyone who wants to receive the vaccine and needs to receive the vaccine, can receive it?''  The Federal Government has released a COVID-19 vaccine and treatment strategy document that presents a broad framework of distribution. 'Australian Government agencies are working with states and territories on transportation, storage and distribution plans,' it reads.  The Australian Medical Association has called for more transparency on distribution plans. President Omar Khorshid argued it was crucial the final details were shared with the public to prevent any confusion. Daily Mail Australia contacted the Department of Health for comment. 
Surgeons 'play God' during coronavirus by choosing who they operate on Surgeons have been forced to ‘play God’ by selecting which patients they operate on during the pandemic, leading doctors warned yesterday.  The toll among cancer patients who have missed out on treatment may surpass that of Covid itself, they admit.  Ben Challacombe, a urological surgeon at Guy’s and St Thomas’ in London, said: ‘We may eventually win the battle with Covid and lose the war with cancer.’  Ben Challacombe (pictured) has warned 'We may eventually win the battle with Covid and lose the war with cancer' He said many patients were arriving with severely advanced cancer because they had not sought treatment during lockdown.  ‘The second resurgence of cancer will come, unfortunately,’ he said.  Calling for a national awareness campaign, he added: ‘We need to just encourage everybody to go and get checked.’ Speaking at a meeting of the Royal Society of Medicine, Mr Challacombe said surgeons have had to agree between them which patients got theatre time.  They quickly realised they were effectively ‘playing God’, he said, and set up committees to decide which patients should take priority.  Those with severe non-cancerous conditions – such as enlarged prostates, gallstones and arthritic hips – have had to wait while those with life-threatening tumours went to the front of the queue.  But those patients with less severe conditions have suffered while waiting for treatment, experts said.  Mr Challacombe who works at Guy’s and St Thomas’ in London was speaking at a meeting of the Royal Society of Medicine and revealed surgeons have had to agree between them which patients got theatre time Professor Derek Alderson, president of the Royal College of Surgeons, told the meeting: ‘The harsh reality is that many patients will have worse outcomes than they should have had if we had not had this crisis and this delay.  ‘We have never had to deal with anything like this before.’ He cited official figures which reveal more than two million people have waited more than the 18-week maximum for a procedure.  Professor Alderson said this will have a huge impact on patients.  ‘The scale of the problem is unprecedented,’ he said.  Professor Derek Alderson (pictured) president of the Royal College of Surgeon said many patients will have worse outcomes than they should have had if we had not had this crisis and this delay It comes as figures reveal that more than 1,500 breast cancer patients have been denied reconstruction during the pandemic, and may have to wait years to get a procedure. The Breast Cancer Now charity said last night women were being forced to live with one breast, no breasts, or asymmetric breasts.  Chief executive Baroness Delyth Morgan said: ‘We are deeply concerned.  Reconstructive surgery is an essential part of recovery after breast cancer for those who choose it.’ 
Pine-Sol approved by EPA for killing coronavirus on surfaces Pine-Sol has been approved by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) as an effective cleaner that can kill the novel coronavirus. This make the common disinfectant, which is owned by The Clorox Company, one of the nearly 500 products approved by the agency to neutralized the virus.   In a press release, the company stated Pine-Sol was effective against the virus with a '10-minute contact time on hard non-porous surfaces.'  Earlier this year, President Donald Trump speculated about injecting a disinfectant into the human body as a defense against COVID-19. But public health experts warn these products are not meant to be ingested in any way and that doing so can have serious consequences. Pine-Sol Original Multi-Surface Cleaner was found effective against the virus on 'hard non-porous surfaces' after letting it stand for 10 minutes by a third-party laboratory, The Clorox Company said. Pine-Sol, which is found on the EPA's website under the name 'Tuck 3,' was added to the agency's list of 'Disinfectants for Use Against SARS-CoV-2' on September 3.  According to Good Housekeeping, the cleaner is listed under the code 5813-101 on the EPA's website.  'With a long-standing history of being a powerful cleaner and disinfectant...Pine-Sol Original Multi-Surface Cleaner now offers the clean families have trusted through generations with the protection they need right now against the spread of SARS-Cov-2, the virus that causes COVID-19,' Chris Hyder, Vice President and General Manager of the Cleaning division, at The Clorox Company, said in a statement. 'We hope this new Pine-Sol kill claim will increase access to disinfectants that can help prevent the spread of COVID-19.'  To disinfect surfaces against the coronavirus, The Clorox Company recommend applying Pine-Sol with a clean sponge or a cloth. Next, wet the surface and let stand for 10 minutes before rinsing. According to the company, most of the other disinfectants recommended by the EPA have not been specifically tested against the virus that causes COVID-19. Several cleaning products, such as Clorox and Lysol, have experienced shortages with some reporting it will be difficult to find these products in either wipe or spray form until 2021. However, The Clorox Company says Pine-Sol disinfectant is not experiencing such shortages and  is 'readily available' both in stores and online. The EPA says that, when using any of the products on its list, to follow label instructions for 'safe, effective use.' This includes instructions for contact time, or the amount of time the surface should be visibly wet, before being rinsed.       Pine-Sol was founded by chemist Harry Cole in Jackson, Mississippi, with the original formulation being pine oil-based, which is a natural disinfectant. Clorox acquired the Pine-Sol brand from American Cyanamid's Shulton Group in 1990, but the products no longer contain pine oil to reduce costs The company is perhaps most famous for having comedienne Diane Amos serve as the spokesperson for advertising campaigns since 1993 with her famous catchphrase: 'That's the power of Pine-Sol, baby.'
Dogs and cats CAN contract COVID-19 from their owners, study shows   Pet owners infected with COVID-19 are at risk of spreading the virus to their cats and dogs — whom can also end up with respiratory systems — a study has found. Veterinary experts from Canada have warned those suspected to have contracted the novel coronavirus to stay away from their furry friends — for the latter's sake.  While there is no evidence so far that humans con contract COVID-19 from animals, experts have said it may be possible, as the virus does not change between species. In their study, the team analysed households in which pets developed respiratory symptoms at the same time as their humans were suffering from coronavirus. Pet owners infected with COVID-19 are at risk of spreading the virus to their cats and dogs — whom can also end up with respiratory systems — a study has found (stock image) 'These preliminary results suggest that a substantial proportion of pets in households of persons with COVID-19 become infected,' said paper author and veterinary pathologist Dorothee Bienzle of the University of Guelph, Canada. In the study, people who owned a cat or dog — and in one case a ferret — and had been given a diagnosis of SARS-CoV-2 were invited to have their pet swabbed. If humans were outside the two-week window of suspected infectiousness, antibody testing was offered which looked for recent or past infection, using so-called IgM and IgG antibodies, respectively. Out of the 17 cats, 18 dogs and one ferret, all cats were tested and none bar one proved infectious, but some showed signs of having been infected. Ferrets and related species like mink are highly susceptible to infection, the researchers noted. 'All cats with an indeterminate PCR or positive antibody results were reported to have had respiratory and/or other illness by their owners around the time of the owner's COVID-19 infection,' said Professor Bienzle. '20 per cent of dogs had positive IgG antibody results — indicating past infection — and one of these was reported to have had an episode of respiratory disease.' However, she added, 'no dogs had positive IgM results, which would have indicated more recent infection.' Veterinary experts from Canada have warned those suspected to have contracted the novel coronavirus to stay away from their furry friends — for the latter's sake (stock image) 'Eligible participant number was limited by relatively low human transmission rates in the study area,' Professor Bienzle said. However, she noted, 'these preliminary results suggest that a substantial proportion of pets in households of persons with COVID-19 end up developing antibodies.' 'Due to the narrow window of time available to detect a current infection in pets — especially if their owner is still sick and isolating — blood testing the animal at a later time to check for previous infection is preferable for assessment of transmission.' 'Transmission from mink to humans has been reported on mink farms with a high proportion of infected animals maintained in close quarters and cared for by humans,' she continued. 'Transmission from pets to humans has not been reported, but since the virus changes minimally or not at all after transmission from humans to animals, such reverse transmission may occur.' Professor Bienzle and her colleagues have encouraged people with coronavirus to stay away from both other people and their pets. 'There is sufficient evidence from multiple studies, including ours, to recommend that SARS-CoV-2 infected persons should isolate from people and animals,' she said. The full findings of the study were presented at the European Society of Clinical Microbiology and Infectious Diseases Conference on Coronavirus Disease, which is being held virtually from September 23–25, 2020. 'Preliminary results made available at conferences before larger more detailed peer review studies are published and replicated are useful to stimulate discussion and further work, but at this stage are just that: preliminary results,' said veterinarian Tim Morris of the University of Nottingham, who was not involved in the study. 'Constructive challenge should then begin as this abstract is presented, with questions including on how the antibody results compared with those taken before COVID-19 was first reported and if the antibody tests are specific to COVID.'  The team, he added, must also 'fully exclude other animal coronaviruses and [...] other causes of respiratory infection in cats.' 'As such these results should not be over-interpreted and so cause unwarranted alarm, particularly as currently there is no evidence reported of contagious SARS-CoV-2 transmission from pets to people.'
Party hub Newcastle is already feeling the consequences of curfew and restrictions Newcastle city centre has a strangely subdued atmosphere for a Friday night. This is a party city with a night-time economy worth an estimated £340m, but as the new local lockdown restrictions bite, the pickings are slim. In the Bigg Market, the destination of choice for generations of late night drinkers, the 10pm curfew imposed on bars and restaurants has drained the customers away. Taxi driver Richard "Brad" Bradley has been driving these streets for 24 years and thinks the new restrictions, imposed just as business was starting to pick up again, will hit the city hard. "September is [usually] our busiest month with all the new students," he said. "They've just put our city on a curfew and it's going to knock everyone back to the beginning." The new restrictions bring an enforceable ban on households mixing at home, and advice not to mingle elsewhere. Trisha Means, out for a pizza with husband Tom at the Portofino restaurant on Dean Street, says for them it will make little difference. "We have parents that are in a high risk group, so we try to not to socialise too much," she said. But for the restaurant's owners, who say cancellations for Saturday alone are running at 100 and counting, it is a different story. Elsewhere, there is some disquiet about a gap between some of the messaging and reality. In the Strawberry pub, limited to table service like all bars in the city, Lynn Campbell (rightly) suspects she cannot be fined £100 for sharing a table with friends, despite being told otherwise. She has worked out that some of the lockdown restrictions are the law, and some are just guidance, and it has left her suspicious and confused. "Can people socialise together, or can one person from one household sit with another one?" she said. "It's just too vague, we just don't really know."   The law, however, is clear about when Lynn has to be out on the street. At 10pm the Strawberry is empty, the doors are locked, and the landlord will make no more money tonight. He, and the rest of Newcastle, wonder what the coming weeks and months will bring.
Coronavirus second wave: PM considers new measures as London mayor insists 'we should not wait' Boris Johnson has said the long-feared second wave of the pandemic has arrived in the UK, with new cases of coronavirus in England estimated to have doubled over the past week. The prime minister said he does not want to put the country in another national lockdown but warned the government may need to "intensify things to help bring the rate of infections down". "We're now seeing a second wave coming in... clearly we are going to keep everything under review," he said. He said he did "not want to get to a second national lockdown at all" but as the disease progresses, "of course we're going to have to take further measures". Meanwhile, the mayor of London, Sadiq Khan, has insisted there should be no delays, saying: "I am of the firm view that we should not wait, as happened six months ago, for this virus to again spiral out of control before taking action." He said the capital is "increasingly likely" to be subject to further lockdown restrictions. "The best thing for both public health and the economy is new restrictions imposed early, rather than a full lockdown when it's too late - but the government must urgently ensure there is a fully functioning testing system," he said. "I strongly urge all Londoners to be as cautious as possible over this weekend. Please think very carefully about your actions - strictly follow social distancing rules, regularly wash your hands and wear a face covering to help reduce the spread of the virus." Their comments came as new confirmed daily cases of coronavirus hit 4,322 - the highest since 8 May - and another 27 deaths were recorded. The R number, which shows the spread of the virus, is now between 1.1 and 1.4. With COVID-19 cases now doubling every seven to eight days, the government is looking at introducing nationwide restrictions for a short period to try to "short-circuit" the virus and slow the spread of the disease. Huge swathes of the North West, West Yorkshire, the Midlands and the North East have been placed under further localised coronavirus restrictions.   Government figures have stressed the plans being drawn up stop short of a full national lockdown, as seen in the spring, when the country was told to stay at home. Proposals being worked up for such a "circuit break" could see essential travel to schools and workplaces continuing, but restaurants and bars would shut - or perhaps run on restricted hours - and different households would be asked not to mix at all. :: Subscribe to the All Out Politics podcast on Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts, Spotify, Spreaker The restrictions could be put in place for two weeks, but the timing and duration of the measures has yet to be finalised. There has been speculation of such a lockdown taking place around the time of school half-term in October. Mr Johnson's message to parents and teachers was: "We want to keep the schools open... as far as we possibly can." Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer, and the First Ministers of Scotland and Wales have called on the prime minister to hold a COBRA meeting. Sir Keir said: "He now needs to take swift and decisive action at a national level to deal with this - he can't afford to be slow. "If the prime minister was to take action, the Labour party will support it and do what we can." Fears are growing that daily coronavirus case numbers could, in a few weeks, hit the figures seen in March and April if the government does not take decisive action now and "hammer down" on the disease. Professor Chris Whitty, England's chief medical officer, and Sir Patrick Vallance, the government's chief scientific adviser, warned the prime minister at a meeting on Wednesday evening that the disease was now doubling every seven to eight days. It is understood they warned the UK is now about six weeks behind France and Spain and in danger of seeing a substantial increase in the number of cases by mid-October if the virus is left unchecked. Matt Hancock, the health secretary, has told Sky News that a national lockdown was the "last line of defence". Downing Street is reluctant to have to return such draconian measures, acutely aware of the damage it would do the economy and to public health in the longer term. "The PM is in a very difficult situation because it all rests on him," one senior minister said this week. "The instinct of the PM is that he has to keep this virus under control, because if there is a spike, it falls on his shoulders. I do feel for him." The prime minister also met with Chancellor Rishi Sunak and Business Secretary Alok Sharma on Thursday morning to discuss the economic situation, amid anxiety in government over the looming spike in unemployment when the furlough scheme winds up next month. The Treasury, along with many of Mr Johnson's backbenchers and others in his Cabinet, is of the view that the country cannot go back to a full lockdown and must exhaust all other options in order to avoid such a situation.
Primodos: UK campaign prompts German government to investigate pregnancy test drug Campaigners have described it as "a huge step forward". The German Federal Ministry of Health has announced it will launch a review into the pregnancy test drug Primodos, which is alleged to have deformed babies. Primodos, manufactured in Germany, was given to women by GPs in the 1960s and 1970s. Many parents believe the hormone-packed pill damaged the foetus in the womb, leaving children with life-changing malformations. It's estimated 1.5 million women in the UK used the drug and the same formulation was also widely used in Germany under the brand name Duogynon. The German government has been reluctant to look into the issue and campaigners in Germany were relying on a breakthrough in the UK. That came after an independent review in Britain found in July that government health regulators had failed patients and that Primodos was responsible for "avoidable harm". The review led by Baroness Cumberege said the drug should have been removed from the market in 1967, more than a decade earlier than it was, and that both the state and the manufacturer had "an ethical responsibility" to fund a financial scheme for "those harmed" to help them with the cost of care. That hasn't happened yet, but pressure from Germany could be key. The German review is expected to focus on whether connections between the then German regulator, the BGA, and the manufacturer Schering AG (today Bayer AG), led to the drug remaining on the market despite concerns about its safety. Marie Lyon, chair of the Association for Children Damaged by Hormone Pregnancy Tests and a leading Primodos campaigner, told Sky News: "This is a huge step forward for the German campaign group and one we thought we would never see happen. "The group had struggled to gain sufficient support from MPs, due to the different political climate in Germany. I have worked with the German campaign group since 2012 and with their MPs since 2016. "Until now the German government have refused to acknowledge any evidence of harm, or initiate an independent inquiry. The MPs deserve recognition for their persistence and I send them huge congratulations on their well-deserved success." Last year, Sky News travelled with Ms Lyon to Berlin to meet German MPs where she presented new analysis from Oxford University professors Carl Heneghan and Jeffrey Aronson, which found there was an association between the drug and malformations. It was after this meeting that 30 German politicians wrote to the department of health calling for a review. This week, the federal minister for health, Jens Spahn, wrote back to the MPs. His letter states that "all the known findings and the scientific evidence do not currently support a causal link", but he goes on to inform them that "a research project" will be carried out and it "will include an examination of the relationship between the regulatory authority and pharmaceutical companies". :: Subscribe to the Daily podcast on Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts, Spotify, Spreaker In a statement, Bayer AG said: "No new scientific knowledge has been produced which would call into question the validity of the previous assessment of there being no link between the use of Primodos and the occurrence of such congenital abnormalities." "In 2017 the Expert Working Group of the UK's Commission on Human Medicines published a detailed report concluding that the available scientific data from a variety of scientific disciplines did not support the existence of a causal relationship between the use of sex hormones in pregnancy and an increased incidence of malformations in the new born or of other adverse outcomes such as miscarriage." The German review is expected to return its findings next summer. Watch Bitter Pill: Primidos here.
Coronavirus: Towns across England added to COVID-19 watchlist - find out if your area is affected A number of areas have been added to the coronavirus watchlist as scientists warned the transmission rate could now be as high as 1.4 in the UK. The Department of Health & Social Care said Lancashire, including all wards of Blackburn with Darwen but excluding Blackpool, Oadby and Wigston, have been added to this week's watchlist as an area of intervention. Wards of Bradford, Kirklees and Calderdale which were exempt are also being added into the intervention area. Wolverhampton has also been added to the list. Blaby becomes an area of enhanced support, and Selby, Scarborough and Spelthorne, Surrey, are added as areas of concern. Swindon, Breckland, Great Yarmouth, Norwich, Broadland, north Norfolk, south Norfolk and King's Lynn & west Norfolk have been removed from the watchlist after improvements in coronavirus cases. Leeds avoided further lockdown restrictions, after the government responded to a rise in COVID-19 rates with enhanced support. South Tyneside, Sunderland, Gateshead, and Newcastle upon Tyne were added to the watchlist as areas of enhanced support. Merseyside, Hartlepool, Sheffield and Hertsmere have also been added as areas of concern. Meanwhile, restrictions have been eased in Leicester meaning casinos, skating rinks, bowling alleys, exhibition halls, conference centres and indoor play areas will be able to reopen from Tuesday. Socially-distanced indoor performances will be able to resume and restrictions on certain close contact services - such as eyebrow threading or make-up application - will be lifted. But the ban on inter-household gatherings in private homes and gardens will remain in place. Kettering, Oadby and Wigston in Leicestershire, and Luton have been removed from the watchlist. Designated areas in Greater Manchester, where restrictions are already in place, remain as areas of national intervention. Rossendale, Hyndburn and Burnley also remain as areas of enhanced support while Middlesbrough, Corby and Peterborough remain as areas of concern. Stockport remains an area of enhanced support. How many have tested positive where you live In Scotland tougher restrictions on home visits have been extended to Lanarkshire. People living in the area will not be able to meet other households in their homes from midnight. They come after lockdown restrictions in Glasgow, East Renfrewshire and west Dunbartonshire were continued for a further week on Monday, having first been introduced on 1 September.
Coronavirus: Don't go to Blackpool for a 'last blast' before lockdown is tightened, police warn Lancashire Police has warned people against heading to Blackpool for one "last blast" ahead of new lockdown measures in the county. While Blackpool itself has not been added to the list of places in Lancashire subject to new regulations, there were pleas from police and healthcare officials for people to stay away. Residents in most of the county are going to be banned from socialising with people outside their own household or support bubble in private homes and gardens. There will also be a curfew on hospitality venues between 10pm and 5am - and people are being urged to avoid public transport unless it is essential. Lancashire Police's Deputy Chief Constable Terry Woods said: "There will be an enhanced police presence out this weekend. "I'm hoping that we won't have any extra issues as a result of the new regulations - a 'last blast' for want of a better word. "My big plea around this would be: there's regulations and then there's a common moral sense duty to us all who live in Lancashire about protecting yourself and your family. "This isn't about having a last blast - this is actually a moral responsibility each of us have got to look after ourselves, our families, our friends and our communities." :: Subscribe to the Daily podcast on Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts, Spotify, Spreaker Mr Woods also warned that the small minority of people who deliberately flout the rules "can expect action". He added: "We can remove you, we can ask you to go home, and at the higher end, you can expect fines." Dr Sakthi Karunanithi, the director of public health for Lancashire, also encouraged people in Blackpool to follow the guidelines for the rest of the county despite it not being legally enforceable. He revealed that 50% of the cases seen recently have been in people who are aged 30 and under - and he stressed that this is affecting all communities, not just people from a South Asian background. The new rules do not apply to Bolton or Greater Manchester, where separate restrictions are already in place.
Coronavirus: Losing football clubs to COVID-19 would be a 'national outcry' Football league clubs are warning of financial implosion if the return of fans to stadiums is further delayed with a second national lockdown potentially looming. There are seven matches being piloted across the Championship, League One and League Two this weekend with 1,000 fans allowed inside. But a target of 1 October for supporters to be permitted inside all sporting venues with up to a third capacity seems an increasingly unlikely ambition. Steve Kavannagh, chief executive of Millwall Football Club, who play in the Championship, says the survival of the 72 football league clubs is in peril. "If we can't open then how are we going to sustain what football is?" he said.   "If that's the case then someone's got to look at it and say 'do we want football in this country going forward or do we just want only the Premier League to remain and exist?'" It has been almost seven months since any fans have been allowed inside Millwall's New Den stadium and Mr Kavannagh says the club has lost millions of pounds as a result. He is happily surprised that so far all the clubs in the football league have managed to survive the pandemic period but fears that will not last much longer. "You'll see clubs going out of business very quickly," he said. "I suspect within a month if not sooner. The owners can't carry on with one hundred million pounds a month being lost by football [a figure calculated by the Premier League]. "You have to remember as football clubs we're making losses in the first place and it was the owners' goodwill that kept those community assets alive. "We're relying on that goodwill even more and I don't know how long we can carry on relying on that. "If a club goes under because of COVID and a community loses its club because they can't sustain themselves then there should be a national outcry." League One Charlton Athletic are historically bitter local rivals of Millwall, but when it comes to getting fans back inside stadiums, football is united. Their match against Doncaster Rovers on Saturday has been approved as one of the pilot events and the stadium has been fitted with signposting reminding supporters about social distancing measures. Their manager Lee Bowyer recognises that having fans inside stadiums while coronavirus cases are rising is a divisive issue. "I can understand it's difficult times," he said. "But there's got to be a time when we have to move on and what's going on around us regarding COVID. "But the most important thing is that we do it safe, we don't want anyone to get ill, or pass on what they might have. "As long as we stay away from that, we can use it in a positive way to show that we can start moving forward." While the Premier League is bolstered by TV money and sponsorship deals, the very survival of lower league clubs hinges on when they can get fans back in these seats. :: Subscribe to the Daily podcast on Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts, Spotify, Spreaker Technology is likely to play a key role in this. Experts at Movement Strategies, a crowd dynamics consultancy, use 3D modelling to examine how people are likely to travel around stadiums and look at how to decrease queuing times and crowding. "Part of the strategy is to gather the information beforehand from the spectators about the size of their bubble," said Simon Owen, director at Movement Strategies. "Therefore they can plan accordingly, they will know exactly which seat they're in. "It may end up being different on a match by match basis. You might previously have had one plan that fits all and now it might be a little bit more responsive to who is attending on that day."
Coronavirus: Common colds 'may account for some reported COVID-19 cases', PHE survey says Rising cases of the common cold could be giving a false picture of the spread of coronavirus among children. Public Health England's weekly coronavirus report shows a rise of almost 23% in rhinovirus infections, which include the common cold, in the last week. Among children aged five to 14, back at school since earlier this month, the rate of infection shot up by nearly 80%.   The survey acknowledges that it "may account for some of the acute respiratory incidents reported". Large increases in NHS 111 cold/flu calls and GP out-of-hours consultations for influenza-like illnesses were also recorded. Acute respiratory infections (ARI) rose by 729 over the last seven days, including 193 cases in educational settings. Of these, 110 had at least one linked case that tested positive for coronavirus, the report added. On Friday, new confirmed daily cases of coronavirus hit 4,322 - the highest since 8 May. And with COVID-19 cases now doubling every seven to eight days, the government is looking at introducing nationwide restrictions for a short period to try to "short-circuit" the virus and slow the spread of the disease. Medical director at Public Health England Yvonne Doyle said: "We're seeing clear signs this virus is now spreading widely across all age groups." And she added: "Out monitoring suggests we're seeing a spike in other viruses that cause the common cold. These can cause a runny nose, sneezing and a sore throat. "You should only request a COVID test if you have a continuous cough, fever, or loss of - or change in - sense of taste or smell." It comes as a teachers' union survey found more than four in five schools report having children off because they cannot get a test or are waiting for test results. The National Association of Head teachers (NAHT) said 82% of the 736 schools surveyed have children currently not attending because they cannot access a test to rule out the illness. Even more, 87%, have children currently not attending because they are waiting for their test results. Almost half (45%) have staff off work because they can't get a test while 60% have teachers absent waiting to find out if they have the disease. :: Subscribe to all Sky News podcasts on Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts, Spotify, Spreaker Nearly all of the schools (94%) have children who have had to stay at home due to suspected or confirmed cases of coronavirus this term. More than three-quarters (78%) have staff who have had to self-isolate since term began earlier this month. Paul Whiteman, NAHT general secretary, said: "Tests for COVID-19 need to be readily available for everyone so that pupils and staff who get negative results can get back into school quickly.   "But we are hearing the same thing repeatedly from our members across the country - chaos is being caused by the inability of staff and families to successfully get tested when they display symptoms. "This means schools are struggling with staffing, have children missing school, and ultimately that children's education is being needlessly disrupted."
Coronavirus: New local lockdown rules announced in parts of North West, Midlands and West Yorkshire Parts of the North West, West Yorkshire and the Midlands have been placed under further localised coronavirus restrictions. The new measures, prompted by a fast rise in COVID-19 cases, have been confirmed by the Department for Health following consultation with local councils and MPs. Live coverage of the latest coronavirus news and updates Lancashire, Merseyside, Warrington and Halton are now being classed as "areas of intervention", and fresh restrictions will come into force in Wolverhampton, Oadby & Wigston, and parts of Bradford, Kirklees and Calderdale. Regulations and guidance differ between the areas, but all are due to come into force from Tuesday. The North West In Merseyside, Warrington, Halton and Lancashire (excluding Blackpool and Greater Manchester), the following restrictions will be enforced from Tuesday: These rules will not apply to Bolton or Greater Manchester, where separate restrictions are already in place. The Midlands In Wolverhampton and Oadby & Wigston, residents will be banned from Tuesday from socialising with other people outside their own households or support bubbles in private homes and gardens. People who are shielding in Leicester will no longer need to do so from 5 October. West Yorkshire All parts of Bradford, Kirklees and Calderdale will be banned from Tuesday from socialising with other people outside of their own households or support bubble in private homes and gardens. Previously, some wards in these areas had been exempt from restrictions introduced at the start of August, but these exemptions will no longer apply. People who are shielding in parts of North East Blackburn will no longer need to do so from 5 October. The new restrictions in parts of the North West, West Yorkshire and the Midlands are in addition to the nationwide "rule of six" restrictions introduced across England on Monday. Elsewhere in England, Blaby has become an "area of enhanced support" on the government's coronavirus watchlist, while Selby, Scarborough and Spelthorne in Surrey have been added as "areas of concern". However, Swindon, Breckland, Great Yarmouth, Norwich, Broadland, North Norfolk, South Norfolk and King's Lynn and West Norfolk have been removed from the watchlist after an improvement in infection rates. :: Subscribe to the All Out Politics podcast on Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts, Spotify, Spreaker Health Secretary Matt Hancock said: "We are seeing cases of coronavirus rise fast in Lancashire, Merseyside, West Yorkshire, Warrington, Halton and Wolverhampton. "Local leaders in these areas have asked for stronger restrictions to be put in place to protect local people, and we are acting decisively to support them. "I know these restrictions will make everyday life harder for many, but I know that residents will work together and respect the rules so we can reduce rates of transmission. "I urge local people to isolate and get a test if you have symptoms, follow the advice of NHS Test and Trace, and always remember 'hands, face, space'. "By sticking to these steps, we will get through this together." The addition of new measures in the North West, Midlands and West Yorkshire will mean that, from Tuesday, one in five of the UK population - just under 13 million people - will be living under extra restrictions. New COVID-19 restrictions began in the North East on Friday. An average of 6,000 people in England per day were estimated to be newly infected with coronavirus during the first week of September, the latest figures from the Office for National Statistics revealed on Friday. Mr Hancock earlier explained to Sky News the need for further government action in some areas, while he also did not rule out a second national lockdown as a "last line of defence". Prime Minister Boris Johnson is considering the introduction of new national restrictions - possibly as soon as next week - but government figures stressed the plans being drawn up stopped short of a full national lockdown, as seen in the spring.
Coronavirus: R number is now between 1.1 and 1.4 nationwide, with the UK reporting 4,322 new daily COVID-19 cases The coronavirus transmission rate could now be as high as 1.4 in the UK, official figures show. The updated R number came as 4,322 new daily coronavirus cases were recorded in England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland. This is an increase of almost 1,000 compared with Thursday - and it is the highest daily figure seen since 8 May. According to the Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (SAGE), the nationwide R number is between 1.1 and 1.4. It said this shows "widespread growth of the epidemic across the country", and it means the number of new coronavirus infections is growing by between 2% and 7% every day. Last week's estimate for the R number was between 1.0 and 1.2 - the first time it rose above 1.0 since early March. The R number represents the average number of people each person with coronavirus goes on to infect. A reproduction rate of between 1.1 and 1.4 means that, on average, every 10 people who have the virus will go on to infect between 11 and 14 others. Scientists advising the government say the R number needs to remain below 1.0 to keep the pandemic under control. Cases across the UK have spiked dramatically in recent days. Some 3,395 cases were confirmed on Thursday, and 3,991 the day before. Ministers are currently considering another nationwide lockdown, with COVID-19 hospital admissions "doubling every seven to eight days". The government is concerned more young people getting the virus is leading to an increase in infection among the elderly and vulnerable. This would put pressure on the NHS during the winter months - its busiest time of the year.
